15 Impressive Features Of The Israeli Economy And Some Investment
Opportunities For Profiting - Seeking Alpha






* See the difference! Customize Seeking Alpha: Sign in or join
* 


Seeking Alpha

















* Home |
* Portfolio |
* Market Currents |
* Long &amp; Short Ideas |
* Investing for Income |
* ETFs &amp; Portfolio Strategy |
* Macro View |
* Earnings
* 













15 Impressive Features Of The Israeli Economy And Some Investment
Opportunities For Profiting



&nbsp;1 comment |  by: David Hunkar September 5, 2011  |  includes: CHKP,
EIS, EZCH, MLNX, RDWR, TEVA
   






* Font Size:

* Print

* Email
* Recommend

  1



  Share this page


  Share





Israel is one of the highly successful countries in the Middle East and
the world. In just a few decades, the country transformed itself from an
economy primarily based on agriculture, clothing and other industries to
a hi-tech powerhouse with leadership positions in software engineering,
computer component manufacturing, pharmaceuticals and medical
technologies.

This vibrant economy offers many excellent opportunities for investors.
Last year I wrote an article about some of the reasons to invest in
Israel.

In this post, let us review some of the impressive features of the
economy of Israel:

1. Inflation has remained well below 5% since the late 1990s.

2. In addition to the industries noted above, the defense industry is an
important part of economy and the country is a major player in the world
diamond industry as well.

3. Israel is described by some as an “island economy” since trade and
investment flows with neighboring countries in the Middle East are
relatively small but economic ties with the U.S. and Europe are strong.

4. Net private transfers, which includes government-to-government
transactions and private households (including remittances), account for
about 2% of the GDP.

5. Compared to most other nations, land property rights are somewhat
unique. Only 7% of the land is privately owned, 12% is owned by the
Jewish National Fund and the remaining 81% is owned either by the State
of Israel or by the Development Authority.

6. The economy has maintained an average growth rate of nearly 4% per
year since 1996, the sixth highest figure among OECD countries.

7. The ratio of public debt to GDP was 75% in 2010, which is lower than
many OECD countries.

8. Unlike a few other developed countries, the domestic financial sector
did not experience a critical failure leading to a strong and speedy
recovery. In a January 2011 report the International Monetary Fund noted:

Banks proved resilient to global downturn and have strengthened further.



The report continued:

Financial stability indicators suggest hat the resilience of the banking
system has increased over the past year. Capital adequacy ratios, notably
including Tier 1 capital relative to risk-weighted assets, have risen for
most banks, while impaired and non-performing loan ratios have declined.
Indicators of credit risk also appear strong; although household
leveraging has increased somewhat in recent years, the overall level is
low, and mortgage loan-to-value ratios are also low by international
standards. Banks maintain high liquidity, and interbank and direct
exchange rate risk exposures are small.

9. The banking industry has played an important role in positioning the
country as an advanced and developed economy that is attractive to
international investors. The industry is comprised of 19 commercial banks
with most of them concentrated into five banking groups: Leumi, Hapoalim,
Discount, Mizrahi-Tefahot and FIBI. Along with these groups, three
independent banks (Union Bank, Bank of Jerusalem and Dexia) and four
branches of foreign banks (HSBC, Citibank, BNP Paribas and State Bank of
India) operate more than 1,100 branches in the country.

click to enlarge images



10. The recent discovery of offshore natural gas fields should reduce the
need for imported energy and will help the already strong state fiscal
balances with the associated tax and royal revenues.

11. Widely praised as a “start-up nation”, Israel has the highest number
of companies listed on the NASDAQ after Canada and the US and the highest
level of venture capital as a share of GDP. Israel implemented a hands-on
approach to innovation by creating the Office of the Chief Scientist in
1969 within the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labour to promote
innovation and development of commercial products in the high-tech
industry.



12. The standard corporate tax rate currently stands at 24%, but will be
reduced gradually to 18% by 2016 due to changes in tax laws. The income
tax rate imposed on preferred income (i.e. income generated from
activities in Israel only) may reach as low as 6%.

13. The Labor force participation in Israel is 64% among the working-age
population, which is lower than the OECD average of 71% but still good.

14. A large number of immigrants into the country are highly educated,
skilled and talented. For example, many of the Jews that emigrated after
the breakup of the Soviet Union were engineers, scientists, etc. who
further strengthened Israel’s “human capital”.

15. Due to cultural and religious attractions and increasingly leisure,
tourism is also a major contributor to the economy with the industry
experiencing an average growth of 12% in the last three years. Last year
revenue from tourism totaled $4.3 billion.

In terms of investment options, generic drugs maker Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries (TEVA) and security software company Check Point Software
Technologies Ltd. (CHKP) are two excellent candidates to consider. Some
of the other companies that investors can review include Mellanox
Technologies Ltd. (MLNX), Radware (RDWR), Protalix Biotherapeutics Inc.
(PLX) and EZchip Semiconductor Ltd. (EZCH). According to an article by
Shlomi Cohen on Seeking Alpha, these four firms have a good chance of
reaching a market capitalization of $1 billion this year.

The iShares MSCI Israel Capped Investable Market ETF (EIS) is a simple
and easy way to invest in Israel. This ETF gives exposure to 86 companies
with financials accounting for about 29% of the portfolio. The fund has
an asset base of $93 million and the expense ratio is 0.61%.

Source: Spotlight on Israel, OECD Observer, Q2, 2011

Disclosure: No positions




More articles by David Hunkar &raquo;

* Just How Big Is The Global Financial Industry? Tue, Aug 23
* The 10 Most Actively Traded ADRs By Value Tue, Aug 23
* Are U.S. Stocks Cheap Now? Mon, Aug 22





Second Opinion On Cramer's Homeland Security Call: Consider Check...

Tue, Aug 30

by Fiver Capital


Low Price To Book Stocks: 50 'Risky' Candidates To Consider

Mon, Aug 29

by Value Research


Opko Health And Ladenburg Thalmann Showing Strong Insider Support...

Today

by Brian Gorban


The Vicious Cycle Of Slow Growth

Mon, Sep 5

by David Hunkar




Security Software: A Non-Secure Future Brings Certain Growth

Wed, Aug 17

by Brett Korsgaard


10 Large-Cap Companies Growing the Top Line and Flush With Cash

Mon, Aug 15

by Follow My Alpha


Check Point: Market Sell-Off, Rising Security Software Spending...

Thu, Aug 11

by Todd Campbell


Best and Worst Performing Stocks on Earnings So Far This Season

Wed, Jul 20

by Bespoke Investment Group




8 Strong Growth Stocks Significantly Undervalued By Mr. Market

Fri, Sep 2

by Chuck Carnevale


Teva Pharmaceuticals: Time To Buy

Thu, Sep 1

by Ron Sommer


Jeffrey Altman's Top Stock Picks

Wed, Aug 31

by Insider Monkey


Sirius XM: Why A Reverse Stock Split Would Be Good

Today

by Hawkinvest






You may also like




















* Recommend

  1



  Share this page


  Share






* Email
* Print







Comments (1)




Add a comment











Register or Login to rate comments &raquo;

* MexCom Comments (909)

   







  Excellent article Dave, keep up the good work.






Load All Comments



























About the author: David Hunkar










David Hunkar (pseudonym) holds a Masters Degree in Finance and Economics.
He is a part-time consultant for a financial consulting firm where he
manages portfolios for manages portfolios for self and family. He has
been an investor for the past ten years. David focuses on foreign stocks
trading... More






* Company: Hunkar Consulting, LLC
* Blog: ADR Universe










David Hunkar




* (845)
* (92)
* Profile












Send Message








You are currently following David Hunkar
Stop Following






You are no longer following David Hunkar







About this author:
* Visit: TopForeignStocks


















































xx


Breaking News Updated at

 broke in the last few minutes - get the latest updates in Market
Currents. Updated at












TOP AUTHORS: The Opinion Leaders

TOP USERS: Commenters | StockTalkers | Instabloggers






&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Twitter &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;RSS Feeds  |  Contact
Us  |  About Us  |  Premium Program

Terms of Use | Privacy | Xignite quote data | Copyright © 2011
















