Stock Market Research - Zacks Investment Research









HOME ZACKS RESEARCH FUNDS PORTFOLIO BROKER RESEARCH MARKETS SCREENING EDUCA
TION SERVICES


Earnings    EPS Surprises    Mutual Funds    Options            My
Account    Help    


 

The gift is free. The information is priceless.
Free Welcome Gift for new Zacks.com Visitors: Zacks 7 Best Long-Term
Picks for 2011. Join more than 700,000 members who are already receiving
four short-term Zacks #1 "Strong Buys" from a list of stocks that
averages gains of +28% per year. Click for free picks &gt;&gt;




Quote:     Search for Ticker
 Login



 User Name:  Password:   
Remember me [?]          Forgot Password          New Member

 Free Membership 
Search:  


  Sponsored Links  













TOP 5 COMPANIES IN THE BUILDING PRODUCTS INDUSTRY WITH THE HIGHEST
OPERATING MARGIN (CCCL, SSD, OC, AAON, AWI)











Print    Share



Sep 06, 2011 (SmarTrend(R) News Watch via COMTEX) -- Below are the top
five companies in the Building Products industry as ranked by operating
margin. A healthy operating margin is required for a company to pay for
its fixed costs and generate cash.

China Ceramics (NASDAQ:CCCL) had an operating margin of 27.1% in the last
quarter on sales of $372.3 million.

Simpson Manufacturing (NYSE:SSD - Snapshot Report) had an operating
margin of 17.6% in the last quarter on sales of $177.8 million.

Owens Corning (NYSE:OC - Snapshot Report) had an operating margin of 9.3%
in the last quarter on sales of $1.5 billion.

AAON (NASDAQ:AAON - Analyst Report) had an operating margin of 8.7% in
the last quarter on sales of $69.1 million.

Armstrong World Industries (NYSE:AWI - Snapshot Report) had an operating
margin of 8.3% in the last quarter on sales of $748.6 million.

SmarTrend currently has shares of AAON in an Downtrend and issued the
Downtrend alert on August 04, 2011 at $20.15. The stock has fallen 20.5%
since the Downtrend alert was issued.

Write to Chip Brian at cbrian@mysmartrend.com

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
------------------

SmarTrend analyzes over 5,000 securities simultaneously throughout the
trading day and provides its subscribers with trend change alerts in real
time. To get a free trial of our trading calls and maximize your trading
results, please visit http://www.mysmartrend.com

Get exclusive, actionable insight into how the market is expected to
trend prior to market open with our free morning newsletter. Sign up at:
http://www.mysmartrend.com/signup

Copyright, Comtex News Network, Inc. 2011



Free Stock Analysis From Zacks

  Includes Zacks Long-Term Recommendation and Target Price


















Best Stocks. Best Insight. Join Now...it's FREE!

Over 700,000 investors look forward to the timely insights in our email
newsletter; Zacks Profit from the Pros. In each daily issue you will find:


* Free  Four Zacks #1 Rank "Strong Buy" Stocks
* Free  Timely Market Commentary
* Free  Wealth Management Tips
* Free  Profitable Strategy Screens
* Free  Bull and Bear Stocks of the Day


Zacks FREE Registration
Privacy Policy





Free Membership to Zacks.com

Close This Panel X












More Zacks Resources



Zacks Rank Home - Evaluate your stocks and use the Zacks Rank to
eliminate the losers and keep the winners.

Mutual Fund Rank Home - Evaluate your funds with the Mutual Fund Rank for
both your personal and retirement funds.

Stock/Mutual Fund Screening - Find better stocks and mutual funds. The
ones most likely to beat the market and provide a positive return.

My Portfolio - Track your Portfolio and find out where your stocks/mutual
funds stack up with the Zacks Rank.







More Zacks Links



Free Membership

Zacks Rank

My Portfolio

Equity Research

Stock Screener

Mutual Funds

Zacks Video

Options

Profit Tracks

RSS Feed&nbsp;

Profit from the Pros




 Market Summary Sep 06, 2011 08:40 am ET


DJIA   0.00 0.00%
NASD   0.00 0.00%
S&P 500   0.00 0.00%














Top Zacks Features

Free Membership
Zacks Rank
Equity Research
Portfolio Tracker
Screening
Profit Tracks

Mutual Funds
Options
Zacks Video
Education
RSS Feed
Profit from the Pros



Subscription Services

Product Guide
Method for Trading
Chart Patterns Trader
Insider Trader
Options Trader
Reitmeister Alert

Small Cap Trader
Turnaround Trader
Whisper Trader
Home Run Investor
Top 10 Stocks
Research Wizard

Zacks Premium
People &amp; Picks



Zacks.com: About Zacks | Education | Advertise | Affiliate | Media |
Careers | Contact Us | Services | Help | Disclaimer | Privacy Policy |
Sitemap


Copyright 2011 Zacks Investment Research

Zacks Investment Research is one of the most highly regarded firms in the
investment industry. The guiding principle behind our work is that there
must be a good reason for brokerage firms to spend billions of dollars a
year on stock research. Obviously, these investment experts know
something special that may be indicative of the future direction of stock
prices. From day one, we were determined to unlock that secret knowledge
and make it available to our clients to help them improve their
investment results.

NYSE and AMEX data is at least 20 minutes delayed. NASDAQ data is at
least 15 minutes delayed.



