Gambling With Speculative Healthcare Stocks - Seeking Alpha






* See the difference! Customize Seeking Alpha: Sign in or join
* 


Seeking Alpha

















* Home |
* Portfolio |
* Market Currents |
* Long &amp; Short Ideas |
* Investing for Income |
* ETFs &amp; Portfolio Strategy |
* Macro View |
* Earnings
* 













Gambling With Speculative Healthcare Stocks



by: Michael J. Ray September 6, 2011  |  includes: AEZS, GERN, MNKD,
NVAX, RXII, TTNP.OB
   






* Font Size:

* Print

* Email
* Recommend

  0



  Share this page


  Share





Investing in speculative biopharm healthcare stocks has often been
compared to pure gambling. I do not agree with this comparison because
with gambling, often the outcome is left up to pure chance. In
speculative healthcare stocks, whether a stock is successful or not is
based upon much more random chance, although sometimes it feels like
that. Investors can do their own research and make informed decisions,
thereby hopefully increasing their odds of picking winning stocks. That
being the case, there are some similarities between gambling and
speculative stock picking and it falls into the realms of how the bets
are placed.

Roulette is a relatively simple game where we have a table with 38
numbers on it with a small ball and wheel that is used to pick these
numbers. Those numbers go from 1-36 and a "0" and "00" for a total of the
38. There are all kinds of bets one can make, but let's focus on just two
types of bets I've observed. The first bet is when Gambler X places a $10
bet on the number 26 with no other bets. If the spin of the wheel lands
on the number 26, Gambler X will win big based upon the payout odds. If
any other number comes up, X will lose his entire $10 bet. Our next
person, Gambler Y, had a different strategy where she also makes a $10
bet but puts $1 on each number between 1-10. Gambler Y was betting on a
basket of numbers to increase the chance to win on the next spin. This
basket approach to betting is what speculative healthcare stock investors
could learn from.

One can quickly see how the basket bet can be applied to trading. For
example, X would be equivalent to the investor who takes her whole
designated bankroll and invests it in just one speculative stock and
hopes for the big payout. The risk is that the company could fail in its
mission and wipe out the investor's bet. Y's betting philosophy would
have an investor holding a basket of securities where one might have six
to 10 highly speculative healthcare stocks. This is where the
similarities end though, because unlike Gambler Y, who will at best lose
nine out of the 10 bets she placed, the investor's stock picks each have
an equal chance of coming out on the winning side of the trade. For
example, if one held seven speculative healthcare stocks in one's basket
and only three of them were successful, then the gains of those winning
positions should more than outweigh the losses of the other four. One
will have to pick stocks that are riskier in nature so that the upside
potential is large enough to cover the losses that will be experienced
elsewhere.

This concept takes some getting used to at first. As the stocks are
chosen and purchased, they do not appear in the "basket form" but as any
other holding on one's statement of account. It is easy for an investor
to quickly forget the basket concept and start to spend inordinate
amounts of time on each holding and trade around the position
individually. I am not saying that each holding in the basket should not
be reviewed from time to time, but one has to remember to view the basket
as the investment. It is easy to forget this as speculative healthcare
stocks can and will be quite volatile. One day they can suffer steep
losses only to retake those losses and post outsized gains on the next
day. That being the concept, let's put together a sample basket and see
what stocks might be a good fit for investors.

Æterna Zentaris Inc. (AEZS) is a great candidate for our biopharm basket.
AEZS is a Canadian late-stage oncology drug development company currently
investigating potential treatments for various cancers including
colorectal, multiple myeloma, endometrial, ovarian, and prostate/bladder
cancer. The company already has one product on the market, Cetrotide,
which is administered to women to prevent premature ovulation in order to
increase fertility success rate. So far the revenues are derived
primarily from sales and royalties from Cetrotide which amounted to $6.1
million and $13.2 million for the three-month and six-month periods ended
June 30, respectively, as compared to $5.2 million and $10.9 million for
the same periods in 2010. This is a nice figure but will in no way lead
the share price higher to the levels we need for the basket. For that,
AZES will depend upon its drug Perifosine. This drug is designed to treat
cancers and rights have been licensed to Keryx BioPharmaceuticals (KERX)
for North America, Yakult Honsha (YKLTF.PK) for Japan and to Handok for
Korea. Æterna Zentaris holds the rest of the world rights. Multiple
trials are currently underway. One of the Phase 3 trials dealing with the
colorectal cancer aspect is set to have its primary completion date by
December and the study is set to be completed by February 2012.
Perifosine’s second Phase 3 study, dealing with multiple myelomas, does
not have its primary completion date until September 2012 and a study
completion date of October 2012. In addition to these ongoing Phase 3
studies, the companies in question are also exploring the drug in Phase 1
and 2 clinical development trials for several other tumor types.

In the end, if Perifosine proves to be successful at treating multiple
cancers, it will make a big splash in the field of medicine. The return
for AEZS will be substantial and as a result will move the stock price
well north of its current value.

Titan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (TTNP.OB) is a biopharmaceutical company that
develops therapeutics primarily for the treatment of central nervous
system disorders and opioid addiction. That might sound like a weird
pairing but it just might prove to be a winning combination. First, the
company offers Fanapt, which is for the treatment of adult patients with
schizophrenia. The drug was approved by the U.S. FDA on May 6, 2009 and
Novartis (NVS) has licensed the rights to commercialize Fanapt in the
U.S. and Canada, and commenced marketing the product in the U.S. in Q1,
2010. Titan is entitled to receive royalties on global net sales of
Fanapt equal to 8% on annual net sales up to $200 million, and 10% on
annual net sales above $200 million for the life of the licensed patents.
Net sales of Fanapt by Novartis during the three-month period ended June
30 and 2010 were approximately $7.5 million and $0.7 million,
respectively, and TTNP was obligated to pay royalties of approximately
$1.1 million and $0.1 million to Sanofi-Aventis (SNY) on June 30 and
2010. Once again this is a nice revenue stream for the company but not
enough to take the share price to the lofty heights our basket needs.

Now consider Probuphine, which is in Phase III clinical trials for the
treatment of opioid addiction. Worldwide, it is estimated that there are
6 million opioid addicts. Approximately one-half of this potential
patient population is addicted to illicit opioids, such as heroin, and
the other half to prescription drugs, such as oxycontin, methadone, and
codeine. As of 2002, physicians can be certified to prescribe opioid
addiction medications in an office setting, which has greatly expanded
patient access to opioid addiction pharmaceutical therapies. Currently,
there are more than 750,000 people globally receiving medicinal treatment
for opioid addiction. The market for such a product is large. Worldwide,
sales for oipioid addiction treatments were $1.1 billion in 2009 and
approximately $900 million of these sales were in the United States.
Since the drugs U.S. approval in 2002, the number of doctors certified to
prescribe these drugs has grown to approximately 20,000 in 2010.

RXi Pharmaceuticals Corporation (RXII) is another biotechnology company
that has the potential to be part of the basket. What RXII brings to the
table is its lead product candidate, NeuVax. This product stimulates T
cells in a highly specific manner to target cells associated with breast
cancer. With over 200,000 women in the U.S. diagnosed with breast cancer
annually, the market for RXII would be huge. Based on a successful Phase
II trial, the FDA granted a Special Protocol Assessment for the Phase III
study. This Phase III multicenter trial is expected to commence in the
first half of 2012. If NeuVax is as good as the company suggests, the
price per share will move to a much higher level than where it trades
today. Before it becomes a contender, one should check the most recent
financial reports.

As of June 30, cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments totaled
$17.9 million, compared with cash and cash equivalents of $6.9 million at
December 31, 2010. This $11.0 million increase is attributable to the
closing of two underwritten public offerings that provided net cash
proceeds of $18.2 million after fees, offset by net cash used in
operating activities of $7.2 million for the six months ended June 30.
The research and development expenses increased to $2.7 million in the
second quarter of 2011 from $2.3 million in the second quarter of 2010,
and increased to $4.8 million for the first six months of 2011 from $4.2
million for the first six months of 2010. The increase was primarily due
to an increase in research and development cash expenses due to a ramp-up
in NeuVax. The question will be if RXII has enough cash to burn as RXII
conducts the Phase III trials.

Novavax, Inc. (NVAX) could be another candidate for the basket. NVAX is a
clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company focusing on developing
recombinant vaccines for infectious diseases using its virus-like
particle platform technology. Its vaccine product candidates target
pandemic influenza, (including H1N1 and H5N1 strains), seasonal
influenza, Respiratory Syncytial Virus, and Varicella Zoster Virus that
causes shingles. The company has a joint venture with Cadila
Pharmaceuticals Ltd. to develop and commercialize seasonal influenza and
H1N1 pandemic vaccine candidates for the territory of India. It also has
a co-marketing agreement with GE Healthcare for a pandemic influenza
vaccine solution.

NVAX might make an interesting choice as new warnings are popping up
about new cases of flu oversees. If any of these reports were to turn
into a real worldwide concern, NVAX could find itself and its products
pushed to the front line of the war on the pandemic. The share price
would increase on a rapid scale. In the meantime, investors will have to
focus on Novavax’s financial reports. Novavax reported a net loss of $5.0
million, or $0.04 per share, for the second quarter of 2011 compared to a
net loss of $8.9 million, or $0.09 per share, for the second quarter of
2010. For the six months ended June 30, the net loss was $12.4 million,
or $0.11 per share, compared to a net loss of $19.2 million, or $0.19 per
share, for the same period in 2010. The primary reason for the decreased
loss for the second quarter of 2011 as compared to the same period in
2010 was higher revenue associated with the company's activities under
its contract with the Office of Biomedical Advanced Research and
Development Authority within the Office of the Assistant Secretary for
Preparedness and Response at the U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services, awarded in February, as well as lower research and development
spending to support the company's clinical trials related to its vaccine
candidates.

Research and development expenses for the second quarter of 2011 were
$5.6 million as compared to $6.3 million in the same period in 2010.
General and administrative expenses were $3.3 million for the second
quarter of 2011 as compared to $3.1 million in the same period in 2010.

As of June 30, the company had $22.3 million in cash, cash equivalents
and short-term investments compared to $31.7 million as of December 31,
2010.

MannKind Corporation (MNKD) is another example of a perfect stock that
could be part of the basket. MNKD's going to be a high risk/high reward
type equity that brings the volatility that is needed. MNKD is a
biopharmaceutical company that focuses on the discovery, development, and
commercialization of therapeutic products for diabetes and cancer. The
lead product MNKD's trying to bring to market is Afrezza, which is rapid
acting insulin that has completed Phase 3 clinical trials for the
treatment of diabetes. If ever approved, this would be a game changer for
MannKind and for diabetes patients as well. This drug can be inhaled,
which is a better prospect for patients than treatments with needles. The
downside is that the company has had two rejected applications to the FDA
to sell the product. The company received two response letters (CRLs)
regarding its insulin platform from the U.S. FDA, in March 2010 and in
January 2011. The problem is that as the FDA asks for more information,
it delays any chance for a revenue stream in the near future. As Mannkind
addresses the FDA’s concerns, the delay is bleeding cash. As of June, the
company had approximately $24.7 million left with a burn rate that will
eat that balance up in short order.

Here is the good news. The FDA has not written off MNKD and there is
still a good chance that approval will happen. The trials to get to the
results will probably not be completed until late 2012 or into 2013. The
concept for inhalable insulin is going to be a winner if the company can
get by the FDA. Anyone who has diabetes and is eligible for the product
will probably switch over from using the needles rather quickly. MNKD's
share price will be at a much different level if and when that happens.
In the meantime a partner or joint venture can always materialize which
could bolster the company's strapped cash issue.

It would be hard to imagine a basket of speculative healthcare stocks
without a mention of Geron (GERN). GERN is a biopharmaceutical company
that develops biopharmaceuticals for the treatment of cancer and chronic
degenerative diseases, including spinal cord injury, heart failure, and
diabetes. GERN actually has a pretty deep pipeline and has multiple Phase
2 trials dealing with cancer therapies. That being the case, the real
catalyst for the company is the Phase 1 clinical trial dealing with
treatment of spinal cord injuries with stem cells. Regenerative medicine
could prove to be the next big leap in medicine, and if it does happen,
GERN will be one of the companies on the tip of the spear. What is
interesting about this company is that GERN's stem cell trial is
attempting to tackle spinal cord injuries. The spinal cord is one of the
most complex parts of the human body. Any success here will make GERN and
its stock move to a different level. The initial human trials are well
underway and the test subject has not shown any adverse effects from the
treatments. In May, the study added a second subject as part of the trail
so the process is moving forward. It remains to be seen how long the
trials will go and how successful they might be.

GERN reported cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at June 30
were $192.2 million, compared to $221.3 million at December 31, 2010. The
company also stated that this cash reserve plus the income GERN receives
will be sufficient to fund the current level of operations through at
least December 2012. GERN also states that future capital requirements
will be substantial as several trials are moving forward, yet another
example of a high risk/high reward stock that might fit well into the
basket.

This is by no means a recommendation which should be copied and blindly
invested in. To put together a basket, one needs to truly dig deep into
each potential candidate company. Skimming an article or two on a
financial website is a good start but cannot be deemed a viable
substitute for reading SEC filings, listening to conference calls, and
viewing company presentations. There are critical questions that must be
answered before any stock is allowed into the basket.

Disclosure: I am long KERX, RXII.




This article is tagged with: Long &amp; Short Ideas, Quick Picks &amp;
Lists

More articles by Michael J. Ray &raquo;

* MLP Closed End Funds: Proceed With Caution Today
* China Vs. United States: War Of The Oil Sands Tue, Aug 30
* Tax-Free Investing Using Closed-End Funds Mon, Aug 29





Add Questcor To Your Diversified High-Growth Biotech Portfolio

Sun, Aug 28

by James Stocklasar Thomas Jr.


AEterna Zentaris: The Very Best Biotech Under $2

Mon, Aug 22

by James Stocklasar Thomas Jr.


Nike, Under Armour Battle Rages As Back-To-School Sales Impress

Today

by Jefferson Starship


6 Stocks That Can Make Money In A Low Growth Environment

Thu, Sep 1

by Atticvs Research




The Two Very Best Biotechs Under $3

Mon, Aug 15

by James Stocklasar Thomas Jr.


Top Buy and Sell Ideas From Last Week's Big Biotech Movers

Mon, Aug 8

by Ganaxi Small Cap Movers


Revisiting 6 Speculative Biotech Stocks That Hedge Funds Love

Sun, Jul 31

by NakedValue


Hunting for the Next Dendreon

Mon, Jul 11

by Michael J. Ray




2 Great Plays In Sugarcane Ethanol

Thu, Sep 1

by Investment U


How To Profitably Invest In Solar Today

Thu, Sep 1

by Dana Blankenhorn


2 Bakken Explorers That Could Yield Big Returns

Thu, Sep 1

by David White


Biopharma: The Waiting Is The Hardest Part

Wed, Aug 31

by Michael J. Ray






You may also like




















* Recommend

  0



  Share this page


  Share






* Email
* Print







Comments (0)

Be the first to comment on this article




Add a comment















Load All Comments



























About the author: Michael J. Ray










An investor who watches and tracks trends and uses options to hedge the
risk. I run a balanced portfolio which contains both growth and income
related securities.















Michael J. Ray



* on Income Investing Strategy

* on Closed-End Funds





* (41)
* 
* (38)
* (78)
* Profile












Send Message








You are currently following Michael J. Ray
Stop Following






You are no longer following Michael J. Ray

























































xx


Breaking News Updated at

 broke in the last few minutes - get the latest updates in Market
Currents. Updated at












TOP AUTHORS: The Opinion Leaders

TOP USERS: Commenters | StockTalkers | Instabloggers






&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Twitter &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;RSS Feeds  |  Contact
Us  |  About Us  |  Premium Program

Terms of Use | Privacy | Xignite quote data | Copyright © 2011
















