Dividend Showdown: Dividend Champions Vs. Mortgage REITs - Seeking Alpha






* See the difference! Customize Seeking Alpha: Sign in or join
* 


Seeking Alpha

















* Home |
* Portfolio |
* Market Currents |
* Long &amp; Short Ideas |
* Investing for Income |
* ETFs &amp; Portfolio Strategy |
* Macro View |
* Earnings
* 













Dividend Showdown: Dividend Champions Vs. Mortgage REITs



&nbsp;2 comments |  by: Geordy Wang September 6, 2011  |  includes: AGNC,
CIM, INTC, IVR, JNJ, KO, NLY, PG, WMT
   






* Font Size:

* Print

* Email
* Recommend

  0



  Share this page


  Share





In the wake of the financial crisis, many income investors are flocking
to a new class of companies that offer market-crushing yields: mortgage
real estate investment trusts. This is one of the hottest, fastest
growing sectors in the market, and it's not hard to see why. Mortgage
REITs are structured so that they must pay out at least 90% of their
earnings to shareholders in order to reap special tax benefits, so
they've always offered investors a higher quarterly payday than your
run-of-the-mill dividend company. The trade-off has always been that the
company has almost no earnings to retain to grow its business, so mREITs
traditionally rely upon secondary stock offerings to expand operations.

However, after the financial crisis, the Federal Reserve lowered the
federal funds rate to near zero percent in order to stimulate the
economy, and rates continue to be low to this day and for the foreseeable
future. This has created the ideal environment for mREITs to flourish,
since these companies make their money from the spread between the
interest rates of their short term borrowings and long term
mortgage-backed securities. As a result, when you take a look at some of
the companies in the industry, you find staggering yields that cannot be
seen anywhere else in the market. Annaly Capital Management (NLY) offers
a yield of 15%. American Capital Agency (AGNC) clocks in at 20.2%.
Invesco Mortgage Capital (IVR) one ups them both with a 23.1% yield.

Investors have been pouring into this sector due to the lure of these
massive yields. As each day passes, there seems to be a growing divide
between income investors of all stripes. There are those who have
embraced mREITs and point to their huge yields as proof of
investment-grade quality. And there are the traditional dividend growth
investors, who are wary of these newfangled instruments and prefer to
keep their money in reliable old standbys like Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)
and Intel (INTC).

The traditionalists claim that they're happy to settle for a lower,
sustainable yield that increases every year, driving up their
yield-on-cost over time. These investors favor stocks that have earned
the coveted "Dividend Champion" title from maintaining an uninterrupted
streak of annual dividend hikes for the past 25 years. The mREIT crew
argues that even with an unstable year-to-year payout, mREITs offer a
superior total dividend package than their traditional counterparts.

Unfortunately, there have been precious few studies comparing these two
very different kinds of dividend stocks up until now. In this article,
we'll be looking at one Dividend Champion and one mortgage REIT and
compare their returns, both dividend and total, over the past ten years.
I should note that I don't have a dog in this fight, so I'm fairly
confident that I can remain objective. While I do incorporate many
dividend-paying companies into my portfolio in the pursuit of an absolute
return strategy, I don't own any mREITs or companies that strictly
qualify as a Dividend Champion.

My interest is purely academic. After witnessing countless debates both
on Seeking Alpha and other forums about the merits of mREITs versus
traditional dividend growth stocks, I thought it'll be interesting to run
a live fire exercise to evaluate these two classes of companies over a
long-term horizon. We'll be looking at only one company in each category,
so this study is by no means comprehensive. Hopefully it'll provide one
small piece of the puzzle that others can use as a springboard for their
own research.

That said, shall we meet our contenders? In the red corner, representing
the Dividend Champions, is Procter & Gamble (PG), a core holding in many
dividend growth portfolios and one of the all-time great success stories
of American business. In the blue corner, representing the mortgage
REITs, is Annaly Capital Management, one of the oldest and most
experienced veterans in the industry.

Why Procter & Gamble?

Procter & Gamble is a titan of its industry and one of the bellwethers of
the broader economy. It controls many of the most recognized brands in
the world of consumer staples, and has proven itself to be an extremely
savvy international operator over the years. Among dividend growth
investors, it's an old favorite, but the main reason I chose this company
was that it was one of the few in its class that actually provided a
decent return to investors over the past decade, where the overall market
moved sideways. Unlike many of its compatriots, its valuation wasn't as
inflated by the stock market fever of the 90s, and so PG investors got to
enjoy both dividend income and capital gains during this so-called "lost
decade," a privilege few dividend investors received.

Why Annaly?

Although many mREITs are new entrants into the space, Annaly has been in
the business for over ten years, a claim that few of its competitors can
make. Many of its fellow mREITs have only experienced the best of times
for the industry, but Annaly has experienced some of the worst as well,
and it has survived them. It is run by CEO Michael Farrell, one of the
most seasoned and respected leaders in the industry. If you're a Jim
Cramer fan, you'll be pleased to know that Cramer has constantly referred
to Annaly as his top pick in the sector. Most importantly, Annaly's MBS
portfolio consists almost entirely of agency-backed securities, which
means that it has no exposure to default risk, unlike other mREITs like
Chimera Investment Corp (CIM). For income investors, who often gravitate
to dividend stocks for the safety and stability they offer, this last
trait is extremely important - the last thing they want to see is their
company's book value get wiped out due to a string of mortgage defaults.

What Are the Rules of This Bout?

For this exercise, we'll be looking at a hypothetical investor who has
$10,000 to invest. In the first trial, he'll be putting that money into
Procter & Gamble at the beginning of fiscal year 2002, which starts in
July 2001. PG was trading at roughly $31.25 at that time, so our investor
would be able to buy 320 shares. He'll be holding the stock for ten
years. Dividends will not be reinvested - he'll be spending all of it.

In the second trial, our investor will be buying $10,000 worth of Annaly
stock, or 740 shares at $13.50. He'll be reinvesting half his dividends
and spending the other half. The reason I chose this model is because the
main argument against mREITs is that they don't grow their dividends over
time. Theoretically, a traditional dividend growth company would
eventually catch up to them no matter what. However, since mREITs have a
much higher payout ratio than your standard dividend stock, investors can
afford to reinvest the excess back into the company. By doing so, they
would be able to increase their dividends over time, not through the
organic growth of earnings but by growing their own claim on those
earnings. As such, they would be able to simulate the growth effects of a
Dividend Champion.

After the ten-year period has elapsed, we'll examine the total dividends
paid and total absolute returns of both stocks. Are you ready? Let's do
it.

(Click charts to enlarge)



It's clear from these results that Annaly has smashed Procter & Gamble
over the past decade, both in terms of dividend return and absolute
return. According to this study, Annaly and its mREIT brethren should be
the clear winners, right? Maybe, maybe not. Before you rush out to load
up your portfolio with mREITs, consider the following:

* Although Procter & Gamble may have been one of the cheapest Dividend
  Champions back in 2002, it still opened the fiscal year at a P/E of
  30.5. The stock was a bargain compared with other dividend darlings
  like Wal-Mart (WMT) and Cola Cola (KO), which reached P/Es in the 50s
  and 70s, respectively, during the height of the bubble, but it was by
  no means a cheap stock by historical measures. Procter & Gamble's yield
  at the beginning of the test period barely cleared 2%. Compare that
  with the stock today, which trades at a P/E of 16 and sports a yield of
  3.4%. Buying the stock at half the price effectively allows you to
  double your return, both dividend and total. At today's valuations, PG
  investors are getting a much, much better deal than investors did ten
  years ago.
* While Procter & Gamble investors have had to suffer through an
  unusually bad decade, Annaly investors have experienced an unusually
  lucrative one. The financial health of Annaly and other mREITs is tied
  to the interest rate environment, which has been very tame for the
  large part of the decade. The federal funds rate opened at 1% in 2002,
  stayed low for the next few years, peaked at 5% in 2006, and promptly
  plunged to near 0 after the financial crisis. As a result, Annaly
  investors have reaped massive helpings of dividends every single year
  besides a couple of lean years in 2006 and 2007. However, there is no
  guarantee that macroeconomic conditions will remain as favorable to
  mREITs for the next ten years as they have been for the previous ten.
  How will mREITs fare if interest rates spike up to the high teens like
  they did in the early 80s? Will these companies even survive? It's
  impossible to know, because none of these companies existed back then,
  so the data required for analysis just isn't available.

As it turns out, although Annaly may have emerged the victor, it wasn't a
fair fight in the first place. In more balanced market and economic
conditions, which kind of company is the superior investment vehicle for
dividend investors? It's difficult to say. In the end, for investors who
view dividend stocks as safe harbors in times of turbulence and
volatility, it would probably be best to stick with the old guard:
companies with proven business models that have an unblemished track
record for returning profits to shareholders. Even in a decade that gave
its opponent a massive edge, Procter & Gamble didn't make too poor a
showing. Looking forward, I expect today's Dividend Champions, now shed
of the handicap of an outsized valuation, to be much better investment
opportunities than they were at the turn of the millennium.

Disclosure: I have no positions in any stocks mentioned, and no plans to
initiate any positions within the next 72 hours.




This article is tagged with: Investing for Income, Income Investing
Strategy, Editors' Picks, United States

More articles by Geordy Wang &raquo;

* Why Apple's Obsession With Control Isn't Cause For Investor Concern
  (So Far) Tue, Aug 30
* American Eagle Is Prime Pickings For Leveraged Buyout Tue, Aug 30
* Steve Jobs Is Out, Panic Sellers Are Out, Where Apple Is Headed Now
  Fri, Aug 26





Top Diversified Dividend Picks For The Next 5 Years

Today

by Dr. Osman Gulseven


7 mREITs With Liquidity, Currently Yielding Over 15%

Mon, Sep 5

by Zvi Bar


Stryker Corporation: Strong Company With Compelling Valuation

Today

by Dan Hennessy


Dividend Growth: Volatile Markets Revive An Old Investing Strategy

Sun, Sep 4

by Kevin Feldman




mREIT Concerns Are Overblown: Good Buying Opportunity

Sun, Sep 4

by Hawkinvest


The SEC May Change The Game For Mortgage REITs

Sun, Sep 4

by Parsimony Investment Research


Recent mREIT Regulatory Risk Fears Are Likely Overblown

Sun, Sep 4

by Zvi Bar


Mortgage REIT Regulatory Risks Continue To Surface

Fri, Sep 2

by Zvi Bar




Scott Rothbort's 10 Low Volatility Stocks In A Rising Volatility...

Thu, Sep 1

by MyPlanIQ


Chimera: A Contrarian mREIT With Confident Insiders

Wed, Aug 31

by Zvi Bar


9 Cheap Stocks With Sustainable Dividends That Don't Ride Market Fears

Today

by Follow My Alpha


5 Stocks With Opportunity In Consumer Goods Despite A Rough Economy

Today

by Brian Nichols






You may also like




















* Recommend

  0



  Share this page


  Share






* Email
* Print







Comments (2)




Add a comment











Register or Login to rate comments &raquo;

* Norman Tweed Comments (3520)

   







  Thanks Geordy Wang for this square off between PG and NLY. I drip PG
  and have owned it since 1980. I have been intrigued by NLY and AGNC,
  but have not invested in them. I agree with your analysis of the p/e
  ratio compression over the past decade and hope that it doesn't
  continue for the next one. However, this is one reason that I have
  raised my minimum yield for initial purchase to 4%. It doesn't compare
  to NLY's 15% in the short run, but it may compare favorably in the long
  run due to PG's 11% long term dividend growth rate.

* Tom Lovell Comment (1)

   







  The mreit won by a large margin. The stock market conditions are what
  they are. So why not award the winner and if conditions change, maybe
  there will be a new winner so stay with winners.






Load All Comments



























About the author: Geordy Wang










Hello! I'm a value investor and freelance writer whose investment
approach draws heavily from the teachings of Warren Buffett, Peter Lynch,
and Benjamin Graham. I believe that while the way we trade stocks will
continue to evolve over time, the fundamental philosophy of buying great
businesses... More















Geordy Wang



* on Portfolio Strategy & Asset Allocation





* (25)
* (189)
* Profile












Send Message








You are currently following Geordy Wang
Stop Following






You are no longer following Geordy Wang

























































xx


Breaking News Updated at

 broke in the last few minutes - get the latest updates in Market
Currents. Updated at












TOP AUTHORS: The Opinion Leaders

TOP USERS: Commenters | StockTalkers | Instabloggers






&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Twitter &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;RSS Feeds  |  Contact
Us  |  About Us  |  Premium Program

Terms of Use | Privacy | Xignite quote data | Copyright © 2011
















