Aixtron to boost Jiangsu Canyang HB blue LED capacity










* Home
* News
  o Industry News
  o Company News

* Lab & Fab Talk
  o Imec develops new SiGe via filling-Aug&nbsp;23,&nbsp;2011
  o GaN nanowires get into the groove-Aug&nbsp;22,&nbsp;2011
  o InAlGaAs/InP cylinder microlaser fabricated-Aug&nbsp;09,&nbsp;2011
  o DonÂ’t blame Auger for LED droop-Aug&nbsp;08,&nbsp;2011
  o Dream screens from graphene-Aug&nbsp;05,&nbsp;2011
  o GaAs entices electrons to 'dance' and-Aug&nbsp;01,&nbsp;2011
  o Nanotubes could help measuring THz laser-July&nbsp;20,&nbsp;2011
  o Graphene gives up more of its-July&nbsp;15,&nbsp;2011

* Features
* Recruitment
* Events
  o CS Europe
  o CS Awards
  o All Events
  o Add an Event

* CS Magazine
  o Subscribe
  o News Alerts
  o Browse Archives

* Solar Magazine
* EuroAsia Magazine
* Compound Semiconductor TV
* Buyer's Guide
  o Buyer's Guide Home
  o A-Z Companies
  o Company Profile
  o Sign in

* Advertise
* Contact
*  



























CURRENT NEWS









Aixtron to boost Jiangsu Canyang HB blue LED capacity

Sep 06, 2011

The Chinese joint venture is expanding its indium gallium nitride LED
manufacturing capacity.


Aixtron SE has a new order for four CRIUS II MOCVD systems in a 55x2-inch
configuration from ChinaÂ´s Jiangsu Canyang Optoelectronics, a joint
venture with Taiwan-based LED chipmaker Formosa Epitaxy (Forepi).

The company is seeking a smooth process transfer up from their existing
CRIUS MOCVD reactors to AixtronÂ´s new generation platform.

Jiangsu Canyang placed the order in the second quarter of 2011 and after
delivery in the period between the second and fourth quarters of 2011,
one of AixtronÂ´s local support teams will install and commission the
reactor in the company’s state-of-the-art production complex in China.
All systems will be dedicated to the growth of high brightness blue LEDs.

Forepi President Fen-Ren Chien, comments, “We are embarking on a whole
new era of high volume blue LED production at Jiangsu Canyang. To
minimise risk and interruptions we have once again chosen Aixtron
equipment. The outstanding performance of our existing CRIUS and G4
systems as well as the excellent design concept of the Showerhead
technology I am confident will give us the proven fastest time-to-market.”

“While these will be Jiangsu CanyangÂ´s first CRIUS II systems, I am
convinced that the new systems will demonstrate the expected results as
well as easy production process handling and excellent compatibility. In
fact, my technicians are very keen to quickly gain experience with the
new generation system and smoothly transfer all CRIUS recipes over to the
CRIUS II systems,” he concluded.

Jiangsu Canyang Optoelectronics is a high-tech enterprise which is
specialised in R&D and industrialisation of LED epitaxial wafers and
chips. The companyÂ´s core business covers the production of Ultra-High
Brightness InGaN LED epitaxial wafers and LED chips and its capacity is
expected to reach 50 sets of MOCVD equipment within the next two years.
In April 2010, the company placed a multiple tool order for Aixtron
Planetary and Showerhead HB-GaN LED MOCVD systems.






NEWS


Compound Semiconductor. The most respected, authoritative and widely read
information source connecting the community since 1995 To view the latest
issue of Compound Semiconductor, click here



To register free of charge to receive news via e mail on a weekly basis
click here.



Search the Compound Semiconductor web site

 






Submit your Lab & Fab article


It is imperative that CompoundSemiconductor.net remains a timely resource
for this industry, so we are only interested in highlighting very recent
work reported in academic papers.Â  Therefore, please only consider
writing a short piece highlighting your work if you have a journal paper
that has been accepted and about to appear in press, or a paper that has
been published within the last month. For further guidelines, click here.




SHARE THIS

    Email this article to a friend

  Connotea       Cite-U-Like        Del.icio.us        Digg       Facebook

  Google       Live Spaces       MySpace       Newsvine       Reddit   

  Stumbleupon       Technorati       Twitter       Yahoo! My Web    





 




FREE SUBSCRIPTION




Subscribe



Advertise



CORPORATE PARTNERS





















































For maximum exposure, become a Corporate Partner.
Contact our sales team.
Buyer's Guide
















Home  |  News  |  Magazine  |  Buyer's guide  |  Contact us  |  Privacy
Policy  |  Terms And Conditions  |  Technical Papers

© Copyright 2011 COMPOUNDSEMICONDUCTOR








