American Chronicle | American Software Q1 net earnings up














Home | Shop | Send Us Info | Subscribe | Advertise | Help |








News

World

National News

State News

Politics

Business (World)

Business (US)

Technology

Industry

Science

Medicine

Sports

Education

Entertainment



Opinion

Latest Articles

View Topics

View Authors



Features

Latest Articles

View Topics

View Authors



Community

Join Our List



Other Sections

Affiliates

Advertise

Video










American Software Q1 net earnings up








American Software, Inc. has reported net earnings of $2.29 million, or
$0.09 per share, for the first quarter ended July 31, 2011, compared to
$1.37 million, or $0.05 per share, for the same quarter ended July 31,
2010.

Total revenues for the first quarter ended July 31, 2011 were $23.71
million, compared to $19.09 million for the same quarter ended July 31,
2010.

Operating earnings for the first quarter ended July 31, 2011 were $3.59
million, compared to $2.02 million for the same quarter ended July 31,
2010.

"American Software posted a strong performance for the first quarter of
fiscal year 2012, achieving a 67% increase in GAAP net earnings fueled by
a 139% increase in license fee revenue," stated James Edenfield,
president and CEO of American Software. "With 42 consecutive quarters of
profitability combined with consistent growth in our global customer base
and aggressive investment in R&D, American Software is well positioned
with a robust portfolio of innovative enterprise application solutions
and deep supply chain expertise."

A service of YellowBrix, Inc.
















Shop | Send Us Info | Subscribe | Advertise | Privacy Policy | Feedback |
Help




The American Chronicle, California Chronicle, Los Angeles Chronicle,
World Sentinel, and affiliates are online magazines for national,
international, state, and local news. We also provide opinion and feature
articles. We have over 5,000 contributors, over 100,000 articles, and
over 11 million visitors annually.



This website and its affiliates have no responsibility for the views,
opinions and information communicated here. The contributor(s) and news
providers are fully responsible for their content. In addition, the views
and opinions expressed here are not necessarily those of the American
Chronicle or its affiliates. All services and information provided on
this website are provided as general information only. Any medical
advice, home remedies and all other medical information on this website
should not be treated as a substitute for the medical advice of your own
doctor. We are not responsible for any diagnosis of treatment made by
anyone based on any of the content of this website. Always consult your
own doctor if you are in any way concerned about your health.




Copyright 2011 Ultio, LLC.
Web Design by Boxkite Media.





