Technology Products Group: Top Buy And Sell Ideas Based On Last Week's
Big Movers - Seeking Alpha






* See the difference! Customize Seeking Alpha: Sign in or join
* 


Seeking Alpha

















* Home |
* Portfolio |
* Market Currents |
* Long &amp; Short Ideas |
* Investing for Income |
* ETFs &amp; Portfolio Strategy |
* Macro View |
* Earnings
* 













Technology Products Group: Top Buy And Sell Ideas Based On Last Week's
Big Movers



by: Ganaxi Small Cap Movers September 6, 2011  |  includes: ANSS, CIEN,
CSCO, FNSR, JDSU, LAVA, LTXC, OCLR, PDFS
   






* Font Size:

* Print

* Email
* Recommend

  0



  Share this page


  Share





The Technology SPDR (XLK) was down 0.8% last week, including a 3.4%
cumulative drop on Thursday and Friday. Within the group, the
telecommunications equipment group was up strongly on the back of strong
quarter reports from Finisar Corp. (FNSR) and Ciena Corp. (CIEN), while
most other groups were weak falling 5% or more last week. This article
covers our analysis of the big news and price moves in the technology
products group last week, evaluating them for buy and sell ideas.

Sell Finisar Corporation (FNSR): FNSR is a provider of optical subsystems
and components that are used to interconnect equipment in short-distance
local area networks (LANs), storage area networks (SANs), longer distance
metropolitan area networks (MANs), fiber-to-the-home networks, cable
television networks, and wide area networks. The stock went up 20.2% last
week, half of it on Friday after the company reported its July quarter on
Thursday after the market closed.

Specifically, FNSR beat earnings estimates (21c versus 18c) for the July
quarter, and it expressed optimism that telecom spending will rise up
going forward, and that the inventory correction that has plagued optical
component firms was over. However, revenue was in-line, and the company
also guided revenue and earnings in-line for the October quarter.
Furthermore, the 21c in earnings reported for the July quarter fell 32%
year-over-year, and was down 36% sequentially from the prior April
quarter.

We would sell FNSR into any rally into the mid-$20s. At Friday’s closing
price of $20.21, it trades at a fair 22 times FY April 2012 earnings, and
at 14 times FY April 2013 earnings. While the company looks like a
turn-around and maybe a good long-term bet for the optical sector, it is
unlikely that it will cut through significantly above the 200-day moving
average in the mid-$20s based on current valuation, falling earnings and
a tepid beat in the current quarter. It is more likely that investors
will wait another quarter or two to confirm the turnaround in
fundamentals before jumping in.

Buy Oclaro Inc. (OCLR): OCLR manufactures transmitters, modulators,
receiver, transceivers, laser chips and amplifiers used in optical
networks. The stock was up 27.1% last week, in sympathy with the positive
earnings report from optical peers CIEN and FNSR, and emerging optimism
that telecom spending will rise going forward and that the inventory
correction that plagued the sector is over.

OCLR has recently reported a string of disappointing quarters, with the
most recent June quarter coming in at a loss of 21c versus a 9c loss in
the March quarter and a 19c profit in the year-ago quarter. The stock,
consequently, has plummeted since its recent high in the $19 range in
February, falling as low as $3.23 last month. OCLR is projected by
analysts to earn 43c in the FY ending June 2013, and as such it seems
like a bargain at current forward 10 P/E and a possible turnaround in the
sector.

Furthermore, technically, it seems that it has finished correcting to the
downside, after having struck what appears like a long-term bottom last
month in the $3-4 range. Furthermore, the stock traded recently in
February at $19 when quarterly earnings were in the 12-15c average range,
indicating that its forward P/E of 10 is at the bottom of its historic
trading range.

We would be buyers of a small position here, and accumulate more on any
corrections as long as the long-term outlook for the optical sector looks
to be improving going forward.

Ciena Corp. (CIEN): CIEN is a designer of Ethernet transport and
switching systems used in network infrastructure by telecom and cable
service providers. The stock was up 27.8% last week, most of it ahead of
a strong July quarter report issued before the market opened last
Thursday. CIEN thrashed earnings estimates (8c profit versus 9c loss)
while missing revenue estimates ($435 million versus $444 million) for
the July quarter, and guided down revenue for the October quarter
($440-$460 million versus $475 million).

At Friday’s close of $13.78, CIEN trades at a fair 17-18 times forward
P/E for FY 2012. The stock is priced for leadership and strong earnings
improvement, yet it is unclear based on the company guiding down in the
current and recent prior quarters if that turnaround is real.

We have a bullish bias on CIEN based on the current strong quarter, but
would wait on the sidelines for now until that strength can be confirmed
with another strong quarter report or further raised guidance.

JDS Uniphase Corp. (JDSU): JDSU is a provider of communications test and
measurement solutions, and optical products to telecommunications service
providers, cable operators, and network equipment manufacturers. The
stock was up 14.2% last week, based on positive reports from optical
peers CIEN and FNSR, as well as persistent rumors that Cisco Systems Inc.
(CSCO) had a buyout interest in the company.

At Friday’s close of $12.78, JDSU trades at a reasonable 12 forward P/E,
while earnings are projected to rise modestly from 93c in 2011 to $1.05
in 2013. Analysts have a mean $17 target on the company, and of the
fifteen analysts that cover the company, nine rate it at buy/strong buy,
five at hold, and one rates it at sell.

Buy Magma Design Automation (LAVA): LAVA develops electronic design
automation software for integrated circuits used in telecom, computing,
and networking applications. The stock was up 17.7% last week, after
falling 16.0% the prior Friday when it reacted to a mixed report for the
July quarter. The company missed revenue estimates ($35.3 million versus
$36.4 million), while earnings were in-line; looking forward, it guided
earnings for the October quarter at 8c-9c versus 9c estimate and revenue
at $37.5-38.0 million versus $38.2 million estimate, and it guided FY
2012 earnings at 38c-40c versus 39c estimate and revenue at $158-160
million versus the $159 million estimates.

We believe that LAVA is a good buy at current prices. At Friday’s closing
price of $5.18, the stock trades at 9-10 forward P/E, at the bottom of
its historic range, while earnings are projected to rise at 40%
compounded growth rate from 28c in 2011 to 54c in 2012. Furthermore,
entire electronic design automation (EDA) sector is strong right now on
the back of strong product cycles; for example, earnings at its small-cap
peer PDF Solutions (PDFS) are projected to increase from 28c in 2010 to
70c in 2012, and earnings at its large-cap rival Ansys Inc (ANSS) are
projected to increase from $2.13 in 2010 to $2.80 in 2012.

Furthermore, the slight revenue miss in the July quarter was mainly due
to slippage of an order for the company’s yield management software into
the next quarter, without which revenues for the quarter would have been
at the high end of its guidance.

LTX-Credence Corp. (LTXC): LTXC manufactures test equipment used in the
fabrication of ICs for wireless, computing, automotive and consumer
markets. The stock was down 10.4% last week, most of it on Wednesday
after the company reported that it missed earnings (27c versus 28c) and
revenue ($62.7 million versus $65.7 million) for the July quarter, and
guided down October quarter to a very weak $35-$39 million in revenue
(versus $64.9 million estimate) and 10c to 6c loss (versus 26c earnings).

We believe that shares are likely to stay weak in the interim given the
disastrous guidance for the October quarter. However, based on the
information the company presented in the earnings conference call, it
guided down for the October quarter due to a slowing down of the growth
plan of its customers and not on account of any order cancellations or
push-outs.

As such, it appears that the fundamentals of its business in terms of the
demand for its products, the resulting revenue stream and cash flows are
still intact. Hence, it is likely that the current quarter negative
guidance may just be a blip and not indicative of a trend or a weakening
of competitive positioning. We would neither be buyers nor sellers here.

Table (click to enlarge):




Please note that the cumulative price change referred to in the last
column of the table above is used here as a measure of volatility to
determine big movers in the group. It equals the sum of the absolute
value of the change in daily prices. So, for example, if a security had
price moves of 2%, -3%, 4%, -6% and 1% during the five days of the week,
the cumulative price change during the week would be the sum of the
absolute values of the daily price changes, which in this case would be
16%.

Credit: Historical fundamentals including operating metrics and stock
ownership information were derived using SEC filings data, I-Metrix® by
Edgar Online®, Zacks Investment Research, Thomson Reuters and
Briefing.com. The information and data is believed to be accurate, but no
guarantees or representations are made.


Disclosure: I have no positions in any stocks mentioned, and no plans to
initiate any positions within the next 72 hours.

Disclaimer: Material presented here is for informational purposes only.
Nothing in this article should be taken as a solicitation to purchase or
sell securities. Before buying or selling any stock you should do your
own research and reach your own conclusion. Further, these are our
‘opinions’ and we may be wrong. We may have positions in securities
mentioned in this article. You should take this into consideration before
acting on any advice given in this article. If this makes you
uncomfortable, then do not listen to our thoughts and opinions. The
contents of this article do not take into consideration your individual
investment objectives so consult with your own financial adviser before
making an investment decision. Investing includes certain risks including
loss of principal.




This article is tagged with: Long &amp; Short Ideas, Quick Picks &amp;
Lists, Technology, United States

More articles by Ganaxi Small Cap Movers &raquo;

* Telecom Services Group: Top Buy And Sell Ideas Based On Last Week's
  Big Movers Today
* Buy And Sell Ideas From Wednesday's Top Movers Thu, Sep 1
* Top Internet Content Picks Of Mega Fund Managers Wed, Aug 31





4 Potentially Bright Stocks in a Dull Economy

Wed, Aug 3

by Brian Nichols


From IPO to Dual-Track Sale

Fri, Jul 22

by The 451 Group: Inorganic Growth


Has Ciena Finally Turned The Corner?

Mon, Sep 5

by Stone Fox Capital


After Hours: Long Finisar, Shorting Esterline and Netflix

Thu, Sep 1

by Midnight Trader




Cloud Computing: Design a Portfolio for the Best, Normal and Worst

Mon, Jun 13

by Diffusion


Growth Ideas: 12 High Growth Stocks Boosting Earnings Guidance

Mon, Mar 14

by Kapitall


Momentum Ideas: 3 Cash-Rich Companies Boosting Earnings Guidance

Thu, Mar 10

by Kapitall


Ray Dalio: Extremely Bullish About Emerging Markets

Wed, Mar 9

by Insider Monkey




LTX-Credence's CEO Discusses Q4 2011 Results - Earnings Call...

Wed, Aug 31

by


VirnetX Uniquely Positioned In Heated 4G Patent Battleground

Wed, Aug 31

by Dustin Moore


Ciena: Earnings Preview

Wed, Aug 31

by Zacks.com


Shorts Track The Better Trade Off Ciena's Pre-Market Earnings

Wed, Aug 31

by Midnight Trader






You may also like




















* Recommend

  0



  Share this page


  Share






* Email
* Print







Comments (0)

Be the first to comment on this article




Add a comment















Load All Comments



























About the author: Ganaxi Small Cap Movers










The two authors are co-managers of a family partnership long/short equity
fund since 2001, with expertise in trading small-cap, micro-cap and
nano-cap companies based on current news. One, a self-taught private
investor with a Business degree from the New York University's Leonard N.
Stern... More















Ganaxi Small Cap Movers



* on Fund Holdings





* (212)
* (3)
* Profile












Send Message








You are currently following Ganaxi Small Cap Movers
Stop Following






You are no longer following Ganaxi Small Cap Movers

























































xx


Breaking News Updated at

 broke in the last few minutes - get the latest updates in Market
Currents. Updated at












TOP AUTHORS: The Opinion Leaders

TOP USERS: Commenters | StockTalkers | Instabloggers






&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Twitter &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;RSS Feeds  |  Contact
Us  |  About Us  |  Premium Program

Terms of Use | Privacy | Xignite quote data | Copyright © 2011
















