Benchmarking: Are You Good Or Just Lucky? - Seeking Alpha






* See the difference! Customize Seeking Alpha: Sign in or join
* 


Seeking Alpha

















* Home |
* Portfolio |
* Market Currents |
* Long &amp; Short Ideas |
* Investing for Income |
* ETFs &amp; Portfolio Strategy |
* Macro View |
* Earnings
* 













Benchmarking: Are You Good Or Just Lucky?



&nbsp;1 comment |  by: Marc Gerstein September 6, 2011  |  includes:
ACWI, ACWX, AGG, BKF, DVY, EEM, EFA, IWB, IWC, IWD, IWF, IWM, IWN, IWO,
IWP, IWR, IWS, IWV, IWW, IWZ, JNK, SPY, TLT, VIG
   






* Font Size:

* Print

* Email
* Recommend

  0



  Share this page


  Share





During the course of a Labor Day controversy involving different ideas
regarding the way income investors go about their endeavors, the topic of
benchmarking crept into the comment section. One Seeking Alpha user,
taking issue with some points I made about benchmark selection, observed
as follows:

There is only one benchmark: how much money did I start with, and how
much do I have now. Comparisons with indexes are for money managers and
the like.




That seemingly sound idea is actually quite dangerous, and I’ve no doubt
you’ve all had occasion to observe close-up the consequences of such a
view.


Why You – And Not Just the Pros – Need Benchmarks


Think back about 10-12 years. Do you remember a TV commercial (perhaps
even a series of commercials) depicting a skinny teenage kid wagging his
finger at and dispensing investment wisdom to a 60-something man wearing
an expensive suit? How did the kid become so market savvy? The answer, of
course, was by using one of the newly-minted on-line brokerage firms that
put bargain-priced trading prowess into the hands of the average person.

Now, let’s try to imagine those same characters as they are today.

What happened to the 60-something guy? He probably kept doing his thing
and maybe retired (hopefully before 2008 or after mid-2009) and now
focuses on his yacht or daily golf game.

As to the teenage investment guru, he probably has to stand by an
automatic door eight hours per day saying over and over again “Good day,
welcome to Wal-Mart” because he quickly vaporized his college fund. He
was good; no, great. Actually, though, he had temporarily benefitted from
the dumbest variety of dumb luck. Unfortunately for him, he did not know
what benchmarks were and how to use them. Had he been aware, he probably
would not have been so quick to worship at the altar of his own genius,
but would have recognized that had had been enjoying the good fortune
that comes to those who are able to ride a powerful bull market. Had he
recognized that the money he made was due to entirely to factors outside
himself – the market – he could have been more watchful regarding the
overall market climate.

I still doubt he’d have sold out at the top (even the best and brightest
find it hard to do that) , but he’d have stood a much better chance at
getting out with at least a reasonable portion of his “winnings” intact.
Instead, believing his fortune to have been the result of his superior
skill, he wound up riding the bear all the way down, convinced every
point of the way that he knew what he was doing (after all, he had picked
the stocks that had just recently soared so high) and that sooner or
later, the “dumb money” (i.e. those who weren’t as smart as he was) would
cease their irrational selling and rush back into the stocks he knew were
the right ones to own.

Benchmarking work the other way as well, by showing you when, despite
seemingly bad outcomes, you should recognize and appreciate that you’ve
got a good thing going.

Countless times during 2008, I found myself responding to the complaints
of my eighty-something mother about the very low returns she was getting
from her money-market funds and CDs and her wanting to reach for more
return by showing her what was happening in the overall market, and how
even a zero return was, in effect, making her one of the most successful
money managers of the day.

Asking “how much money did I start with, and how much do I have now” is
an important starting point for evaluating your efforts, but sheds no
light at all on why you achieved what you did and does not help you
determine whether you should stay the course or make some adjustments.

For investment professionals, this is second nature. It has to be given
their need to justify their actions to clients. But it’s also important
to the average investor. Absent proper benchmarks, you have no was of
knowing whether your returns are the result of your efforts or luck.
Being in the dark on such a vital issue can get you into big trouble.


Some Popular Benchmarks


For a long time, the most popular stock-market benchmark was the Dow
Jones Industrial Average. It’s still widely published and widely cited,
but at this point, it’s not taken as seriously as it once was and thank
god for that – as a benchmark, it’s dreadful.

The Dow tracks the progress of thirty large U.S. stocks. That alone
raises some serious issues. Is thirty a big enough sample (it’s
debatable; don’t automatically assume the answer is “No”). Is it
reasonable to restrict consideration to large companies (this, too, is
defensible, but highly debatable) or even to U.S. companies (this is more
defensible).

But what makes the index such a disaster is the fact that it is price
weighted. To see how absurd this is, imagine a hypothetical two-stock
index (or portfolio): Apple (AAPL), which closed at 322.56 on 12/31/10,
and Berkshire Hathaway (BRK.A), which closed then at 104,000.00. Assume
there are no questions about sampling: These are the only two stocks in
the market so a passive investor, an indexer, would have to hold both
AAPL and BRK.A. But how much money would be allocated to each?

An equally weighted portfolio would allocate 50% to each stock, meaning
the index would have been more or less flat so far in 2011: BRK.A fell
13.7% while AAPL rose 15.9%; so an equally-weighted portfolio would have
risen by 1.15%. That’s defensible. Many investors allocate equally, so
1.15% could well represent the return of a passive portfolio.

Many institutional portfolios use market capitalization as a starting
point for weighting and go higher for stocks they think are better, and
compensate by “underweighting” issues in which they are less optimistic.
(They often have so much money to put to work, it can be hard for them to
completely ignore major stocks or sectors forcing them to express their
views by overweighting or underweighting). Apple’s market cap at 12/31/10
was $346.8 billion, while Berkshire’s was $171.8 billion.

In other words, AAPL accounted for 67% of our hypothetical market while
Berkshire accounted for 33%. Hence a passive investor, one who didn’t
want to decide the merits of the individual stocks and preferred to just
“buy the market” would have used those weights. A market capitalization
weighted index designed on that basis would have risen 6.1%, based on a
weighted average that uses 67% of AAPL’s performance and 33% of
Berkshire’s. (That’s generally the approach taken by S&P and most other
indexes.)

What about the price-weighted method used by Dow Jones? Are you sitting
down? You should be. This is going to jolt you. Berkshire stock was
priced at 120,450 on 12/31/10; AAPL closed at 323. Adding 120,450 and 323
comes to of 120,773. Based on the method used for the Dow Jones
Industrial Average, Dow would divide by two to assume an average
portfolio price of 60,387.

Just before Labor Day, BRK.A and AAPL respectively closed at 104,000 and
374; adding them up and dividing by two produces a portfolio value of
52,187, 13.6% lower than the 12/31/10 valuation. Hence media outlets that
talk about the Dow would have told you how horrible the market was, how
it declined 13.6%. The reporters would recognize that the stock that
accounted for two-third of all money in the market was up 15.9%.

(NOTE: There are various subtleties to the real-world versions of all
these computations, particularly in the use of “divisors” to deal with
stock splits, as well as changes to index rosters, and in the case of
weighted indexes, adjustment of market caps to account for float, but the
general idea of each approach is as depicted here.)

So please, please, please, please do not ever give a second’s worth of
thought to the Dow. I have no doubt everyone at Dow Jones knows how
defective this index is (by the way, it was created in 1882, when it was
too much a pain in the neck for Charles Dow to do frequent calculations
any other way), and I assume considerations of branding and public
relations are the only things that prevent it from being discontinued.
(Just think of how many times per day the word “Dow” is printed and
publicly uttered; no PR person wants to give that up!)

Another benchmark that became popular in recent years is the NASDQ 100.
This is not quite as horrible as the Dow, but it, too, is sort-of absurd.
It's capitalization weighted, which is commonplace. My quarrel is that
its sample is limited to something investors today don’t care deeply
about; the fact that the stock trades on the NASDQ rather than elsewhere,
say the NYSE.

A generation or so ago, this might have meant something but today, that’s
not really the case. It means a lot to the exchanges as they compete for
business, but I personally don’t care, and I doubt this is important to
many of you. (Suppose Apple, a Seeking Alpha readers’ favorite, would
move to the NYSE? Would you feel compelled to sell? The NASDQ Index
presumes you would, in fact, do just that.)

Some favor the NASQ because it supposedly provides a good sense of
tech-stock performance. But this is based on coincidence, not design. It
just so happened that in the 1990s and 2000s, many new tech companies
went onto the NASDQ and, so far, stayed there. But there’s no law that
says that have to remain there forever. Suppose Apple, Cisco (CSCO),
Google (GOOG), Microsoft (MSFT), Amazon (AMZN), eBay (EBAY), et. al.
decide in the next few months to migrate to the NYSE? Then, it’s likely
we would no longer be able to characterize the NASDQ 100 as a tech
benchmark.

If you actually do want a tech-oriented benchmark (assuming that’s all
you care about), you’d be better off picking a technology ETF to track;
there’s no reason to muddying up your efforts with the possibility big
tech stocks may switch to NYSE or with non-tech stocks presently included
in the NASDQ 100.

The most widely accepted modern benchmark is the S&P 500, and
fortunately, media outlets that continue to insist on tracking the Dow
and NASDQ 100 have enough sense to also track the S&P 500.

Interestingly, though, as popular as the S&P 500 is today, this index,
too, leaves much to be desired. It's cap weighted (with adjustments for
float) meaning the calculation is intellectually defensible but also that
it’s only useful for those who are interested in large cap stocks. That’s
not the end of the world. Many are, in fact, oriented to large cap.

The bigger problem with the S&P 500 is the selection process. Decisions
are made by committee. A stock can be dropped simply because it’s a dog
and replaced by one the committee deems “better.” And even if a stock is
dropped because it must be dropped (i.e. due to acquisition or
bankruptcy), it’s unlikely it will be replaced by a dog.

So in a sense, one can argue that the S&P 500 is not an index at all but
an actively managed play-money large-cap portfolio, and one that has an
advantage relative to real-money large-cap funds since the S&P selection
committee doesn’t have to sell stocks at low prices when mutual fund
managers have to sell to raise cash. Moreover, the S&P selection
committee doesn’t have to buy high as bull markets peak because their
hounded by fund lawyers who insist managers obey prospectuses and stay
fully or near-fully invested.

Because fund managers are constantly forced to buy by their clients to
buy high and sell low, while the S&P selection committee need not do
that, even terrific fund managers should be expected to underperform the
ivory-tower play-money S&P 500 portfolio.

(One of the many reasons why hedge funds got big was to escape from such
constraints and give portfolio managers a chance, for better or worse, to
have performance reflect their decisions, as opposed to the timing
choices of their customers.)

Even so, if you want to use the S&P 500 to benchmark your performance,
assuming you are focusing on large cap U.S. stocks, I wouldn’t argue
since for better or worse, the math is OK and the index remains number
one in terms of popularity. But if you want to do better, I’m going to
propose that you stop following any of the popular indexes and choose
from another set, all of which can easily be followed via
well-established ETFs designed to track them.


A Better Set of Benchmarks


If you want to properly benchmark your efforts, I suggest you make
yourself familiar with three index brands that are very well respected by
professionals but little known or discussed in the financial media:
Russell (if you care U.S. investing), MCSI (if you want to invest outside
the US) and a third that’s not quite as big but has a valuable niche,
Rydex (which offers equally-weighted indexes).

You should also get intimate with iShares, which offers a terrific
product line that includes lots of ETFs based on Russell and MSCI
indexes; it may be hard for you to track the indexes themselves, but
tracking the relevant ETFs is as easy as easy can be. (Rydex issues its
own ETFs.)

By the way, if you use the historical price data on Yahoo Finance!, as I
strongly suggest you do, focus on the column labeled Adjusted Close; this
series includes the impact of dividends (so even if you really want the
S&P 500, it’s actually better to go to the historical Yahoo Finance
adjusted prices for the SPYDER S&P 500 ETF (SPY) as opposed to looking at
the S&P 500 price index itself). By the way, I’m not abandoning Dow Jones.

If we can look past the PR nonsense and the 19th century indexes they
still publish, we can actually find a very useful family of
sector-specific U.S. equity indexes.

Russell and MSCI indexes are capitalization weighted (adjusted for float)
but improve on S&P in that stock selection is based on objective rules,
not the feelings of members of a committee. It’s true that the rules are
designed by humans, but they are very broad and rather than seeking to
identify “good” stocks, they are focuses on weeding out stocks that for
one reason or another are not likely to be effectively tradable or
representative of what most investors would consider. These indexes still
have the built-in advantage of not having to buy high and sell low, but
at least they don’t rub portfolio manager’s noses in the dirt by also
being active.

Here are some of the main Russell selections:

* Russell 1000, tracked by iShares Russell 1000 Index ETF (IWB)

Like the S&P 500, it represents large-cap U.S. stocks, and is cap
weighted. But it uses a bigger sample and, as noted, selection of stocks
is done using objective rules.

* Russell 2000, tracked by iShares Russell 2000 Index ETF (IWM)

I’m absolutely flabbergasted by the persistent failure of financial media
outlets to prominently track the Russell 2000 (Attention Seeking Alpha:
Hint, hint, hint!) It, too, is a cap weighted U.S. index but it focuses
mainly on smaller stocks, which may not be as appealing to institutions
by is highly relevant to individuals, many of whom can and do trade
smaller capitalization stocks.

* Russell 3000, tracked by iShares Russell 3000 Index ETF (IWV)

This is a very interesting and badly under-rated index. It, essentially,
is the Russell 1000 plus the Russell 2000 and, in a sense, is a pretty
good depiction of the total U.S. stock market. There are other total U.S.
indexes that have more stocks, but as you progress beyond 3,000, you get
into some very, very small selections many of which, mathematically, have
so little impact as to hardly justify the extra CPU processing power
needed to add them to the computation (and that’s saying something
considering how cheap CPU power is nowadays).

That said, there many that are very much worth considering, but as I have
shown in connection with my low-priced stock newsletter, this corner of
the market is best viewed as a unique thing unto itself, and as we’ll see
below, Russell gives us a way to do that.

* Russell MidCap, tracked by iShares Russell MidCap Index ETF (IWR)
* Russell MicroCap, tracked by iShares Russell MicroCap Index ETF (IWC)

These are specialty indexes that might be useful to some of you. The
MidCap Index is a subset of the Russell 1000. If you take all those
stocks and rank them from largest to smallest, the mid-cap index consists
of those ranked 201-1000. The MicroCap index consists of the smallest
1000 from among those that make the Russell 3000, and the top 1000 from
among fail, based on size, to make it into the Russell that universe.

Click here for details of Russell’s methodology.

* Specialized U.S. equity benchmarks

Here, we have Dow Jones sector indexes, which are quite modern and
useful. They use objective selection rules and capitalization weighting.
There are also some diversification rules that prevent the largest
companies from overwhelming the index, so you get clear pictures of the
sectors, free from large-cap domination. Indeed, the fact that these
indexes are as well constructed as they are is what leads me to believe
the financial people at Dow Jones know (but obviously can’t publicly
state) how absurd their 19th century indexes are.

Here is a list of sector/industry indexes:



Click here for an example of the Dow Jones sector-index methodology.

Suppose you decide you want to focus on a specific style, like value or
growth. You could stick with the basic Russell benchmark, either the 3000
for total market, or one of the more specific size-based indexes, and use
such comparisons to measure the wisdom of your choice of value or growth.
It’s one thing to say you’re a value investor, as so many on Seeking
Alpha do. It’s another thing to inquire into whether you’re actually good
at this sort of thing. Hence, style-specific benchmarks could be useful.

So here are some ETFs you can track.

* General value, represented by the iShares Russell 3000 Value ETF (IWW)
* Large cap value, represented by the iShares Russell 1000 Value ETF
  (IWD)
* Mid cap value, represented by the iShares Russell MidCap Value ETF
  (IWS)
* Small cap value, represented by the iShares Russell 2000 Value ETF
  (IWN)
* General growth, represented by the iShares Russell 3000 Growth ETF
  (IWZ)
* Large cap growth, represented by the iShares Russell 1000 Growth ETF
  (IWF)
* Mid cap growth, represented by the iShares Russell MidCap Growth ETF
  (IWP)
* Small Cap growth, represented by the iShares Russell 2000 Growth ETF
  (IWO)

The Russell link above includes explanations of how Russell defines
growth and value. These approaches are not highly sophisticated.
Actually, I’m being kind. They’re quite pedestrian. But that’s fine.
Remember, these are benchmarks, and as such they’re supposed to be basic.
It’s up to you to do better if you wish to try. Evaluate yourself based
on whether your philosophy of growth or value is better than the correct
and competent but bland approaches used by Russell.

I mentioned above the existence of a suite of Rydex equally-weighted
indexes. Many of these focus on the S&P 500 with its committee-based
selection approach. As you know, I’m not thrilled with it, but accept it
as a nod to prevailing investment-community culture, and it’s worth
tolerating this in order to get the benefit of benchmarks which use S&P
500 stocks (or sector-specific subsets) but differ from S&P by using
equal weighting as opposed to weighting based on capitalization. This
could be very valuable for individual investors, whose own portfolios are
much more likely to come closer to equal weighting than cap weighting.



Meanwhile, income investing can pose particular challenges since the
media completely ignores this area notwithstanding its great importance
to many investors. There are a couple of equity benchmarks worth
considering, but if you really want to effectively evaluate your efforts
along these lines, you’ll need to stray into the world of fixed income.

Historically, fixed-income benchmarks will have performed very well given
the epoch declines in interest rates. It will be very valuable to monitor
these further into the future, to see how effective you can be at using
the dividend-growth capabilities of equities to offset a possible end to
what some refer to as a bond bubble.

Here are some suggested benchmarks:

* iShares Dow Jones Select Dividend (DVY)
* Vanguard Dividend Appreciation (VIG)

DVY looks to be as good a core equity-income benchmark as I can find. I’m
not saying it’s great. As noted, there’s a dearth of product here so for
now, it will have to do. VIG is a slightly more growth-oriented version
(i.e. willingness to sacrifice current yield for future growth).

* S&P Capital High Yield Bond Fund (JNK)

This is a junk-bond ETF, but you can use it as a benchmark for evaluating
your equity-income efforts if you choose to take on more risk and seek
higher yields. I wish there would be a suitable equity-income product,
but there isn’t at this time so we have to make do as best we can.

* iShares Barclays 20+ Year Treasury Bond ETF (TLT)
* iShares Barclays Aggregate Bond ETF (AGG)

These are mainstream fixed-income benchmarks; TLT for long-term
treasuries and AGG for general investment grade corporate bonds. I don’t
want to slice and dice the bond market as heavily as I did the equity
market because I don’t sense that Seeking Alpha investors think this way.

Actually, I’d be content to stick with AGG as the most generalized
approach, but I added TLT because I feel a need to put something in to
represent risk-free investing. If you want to start moving up and down
the yield curve, use these benchmarks to assess the wisdom of the choices
you make along these lines.

(REMEMBER: Look at the adjusted price column in Yahoo Finance! Historical
Prices. Income investors have particular need to factor in the impact of
income payments!)

Meanwhile, there’s a lot of talk about global investing. I’m not sure how
far Seeking Alpha users stray outside the U.S., but I suspect any of you,
no matter what you do, can find an iShares ETF based on an MSCI index to
serve as a worthy benchmark.

MSCI is a terrific indexation company with a solid methodology involving
float-adjusted capitalization weighting (and they work darn hard to get
this right, which can be a daunting task in many countries where it is
often difficult to determine which shares should or should not be
included in the float), and objective selection rules that are highly
sensitive to liquidity (another critical consideration in many parts of
the world).

There are far too many choices for me to list here. You can find all of
them on the iShares website among their equity ETF offerings. Here is a
sampling of some likely to be of most interest.

* iShares MSCI ACWI Index Fund (ACWI): global (including U.S.)
* iShares MSCI ACWI ex US Index Fund (ACWX): global (ex U.S.)
* iShares MSCI EAFE Index Fund (EFA): general Europe, Australia, and
  Far East
* iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Fund (EEM): general Europe, Australia,
  and Far East
* iShares MSCI BRIC Fund (BKF): Brazil, Russia, India and China


Nouvelle Indexes


Nowadays, there are plenty of fancy new indexes featuring a dizzying
array of styles. Many of these make for investment ideas, but I doubt any
of them would be useful for benchmarking. In fact, I suspect the index
providers pretty much understand and accept this. The ETF is a very
interesting investment vehicle, as I’m sure Seeking alpha readers well
understand. But their formalities are such that they track indexes. So if
you have an interesting idea (such as a fund that buys S&P 500 stocks and
boosts income by writing call options) you can’t just create such a fund.
First you create an index, and call it, perhaps, the “Something-Or-Other
Buy-Write Index.” Then you can create (and market) an ETF to track it.

In other words, the fancier the index, the more likely it is that it was
created specifically to serve as the basis for an ETF, and with no regard
at all for benchmarking. There’s nothing at all wrong with that. In fact,
as you’ve seen often on Seeking Alpha, there are many interesting ETF
products out there. Just make sure you recognize these indexers for what
they really are, products as opposed to benchmarks. (PowerShares,
ProShares and Direxion loom large here.)

I just want to make special mention of a particular class of
product-oriented indexes because the public relations around them can, at
times, confuse investors (especially since the index proponents pour out
lots of research and involve big names such as Jeremy Siegel and Robert
Arnott): Fundamental Indexing.

Stripped of all the rhetoric, advocates of these indexes are saying
"bigger is better" (in that they give more weight to large companies),
but instead of defining "big" in terms of market cap, which is
influenced, and at times badly distorted, by stock price movements having
nothing to do with the company itself, they define "big" in terms of
company fundamentals.

Wisdom Tree got famous by defining big in terms of dividends paid out.
(NOTE: Yield is NOT relevant. It's the total dollars paid that they look
at. A big company that pays out a lot of dollars could have a large
weighting in an index even if the total payment was spread over a large
number of shares leaving a miniscule per-share dividend and a yield of,
say, 0.01%.) So don't go to Wisdom Tree looking for income; go to Wisdom
Tree if you want big companies based on their definition of big. (Over
the years, they've broadened their product line, but if you want income,
you still need to go beyond the name of the fund and read the prospectus
in order to see if it stresses yield, rather than dividends paid. It's
easy to slip up if you're not careful.)

Robert Arnott went in a different direction with "fundamental weighting"
that I think may be more interesting. Rather than using dividends paid to
define big, he uses a combination of fundamental factors, including
revenue. Just bear in mind that selection of an ETF based on an Arnott
index (often branded as RAFI), or any other fundamental approach, is not
at all passive. It is very much an active decision to (i) go large, and
(ii) go large using a definition that refers to fundamentals instead of
market cap.


I’m Still Stuck!


There’s a lot to choose from here. Don’t worry about it.
Investment-community culture need not be ignored. If you need to start
somewhere, go traditional: use the S&P 500. As you compare your results
to that of this index and more importantly, ask yourself why you varied
as you did (whether for better or worse), you’ll find yourself better
able to articulate what, exactly, you’re trying to do at which time
you’ll be better able to choose one or more suitable benchmarks.

But don’t get carried away. If you find yourself needing more than three
benchmarks (one for U.S. equity, one for global equity and one for
income), you may want to take a look at your portfolio to see if you’re
too scattered, a jack of all trades and master of none. I say this even
if you can convincingly argue that your portfolio really is multifaceted
consisting of, say, six or seven different strategic components.
Ultimately, you care about how much money it all adds up to and if the
total produced by a strategic smorgasbord can’t match that which you
could get from a single benchmark ETF, it really would behoove you to
think long and hard about what you’re doing. (This, actually, is exactly
what benchmarking is supposed to induce you to do.)

Realistically, nobody is good at everything. If you are spread all over
the place, consider separately evaluating each strategic component of
your portfolio and determine, based on benchmark comparison, which ones
you’re not handling all that well. Eliminate those strategies and
reallocate funds to areas at which you’re more proficient. (By the way,
this doesn’t mean you have to jump ship if you had a bad month or
specialize where you had a good month; evaluate in a common-sense manner
over a reasonable time frame, just as you would anything else.)

Don’t get caught up in visions of being a “Renaissance Man,” unless you’d
be willing to undergo a cardiac bypass by a surgeon who divided his or
her practice equally between cardiology, neurology, orthopedics,
oncology, pediatrics and internal medicine. But if you’re really gung-ho
about your willingness to do that, and assuming you’re in good cardiac
health and not about to actually go on the table (in which case all this
would likely and sadly become moot), use AGG for your income investments
and ACWI for everything else.

Disclosure: I have no positions in any stocks mentioned, and no plans to
initiate any positions within the next 72 hours.




This article is tagged with: ETFs &amp; Portfolio Strategy, Portfolio
Strategy &amp; Asset Allocation, Editors' Picks

More articles by Marc Gerstein &raquo;

* Hedging With Leveraged ETFs: A Real-Life Case Study Fri, Aug 19
* Do 'Sophisticated' Hedged ETFs Deliver? Wed, Aug 10
* Hedging the Triple Play Income Strategy Fri, Aug 5





Debunking Dividend Agnostic Assumptions: Here's What Really Makes...

Fri, Sep 2

by Five Plus Investor


Bernanke's Big Moment And Your Allocation To Commodity ETFs

Thu, Aug 25

by Gary Gordon


Logical Case For 49% Drop In Stocks

Today

by Chris Ciovacco


Want A Realistic Retirement Number? Before Anything Else, Consider...

Sun, Sep 4

by Roger Nusbaum




Toast the Bear Market With These 10 ETFs

Thu, Aug 11

by Dutch Trader


Top 5 Graphs of the Week: Emerging vs. Developed Market Outlook

Mon, Jul 25

by Econ Grapher


The Shape of Market Bubbles (With a Footnote on Gold)

Thu, Jul 21

by Doug Short


Inside or Outside: What Belongs in a Tax Deferred Retirement...

Wed, Jul 6

by Kevin Feldman




Slow Growth's Silver Lining: Corporate Profit Margins

Fri, Sep 2

by Russ Koesterich


Major Asset Classes Performance Update: September 2011

Thu, Sep 1

by James Picerno


'Buying Dividend Stocks For Income' Arguments Don't Make Sense

Wed, Aug 31

by Lawrence Weinman


Positioning Your Portfolio For A Bear Market

Today

by Thomas Lott






You may also like




















* Recommend

  0



  Share this page


  Share






* Email
* Print







Comments (1)




Add a comment











Register or Login to rate comments &raquo;

* poortorich Comments (1194)

   







  Marc
  Thanks for the article. Here are some thoughts that come to mind. Your
  first goal LONG term is to beat inflation. What it boils down to is if
  you cant keep up with inflation, you are losing buying power. If you
  can beat inflation by 2-5%/ year LONG term, you are doing ok. The
  second goal is to beat a broad index ie vti, because LONG term, the
  broad market will beat inflation by a few percentage points. If you can
  beat VTI or S and P by 2-5%/year LONG term, you are doing ok. If you
  can return 17-20%/ year compounded annually, you dont need a benchmark
  because you are doing well.






Load All Comments



























About the author: Marc Gerstein










Marc H. Gerstein (http://twitter.com/#MHGerstein or if already on
Twitter, search for @MHGerstein) is an independent investment
analyst/consultant specializing in rules-based equity and ETF investing
strategies, with particular emphasis on small-cap equities and leveraged
ETFs. Many of is views... More






* Company: StockScreen123, Portfolio123 and Ariston Advisors
* Blog: Forbes Low-Priced Stock Report
* Book: Screening The Market










Marc Gerstein




* (181)
* 
* (475)
* Profile












Send Message








You are currently following Marc Gerstein
Stop Following






You are no longer following Marc Gerstein







About this author:
* Visit: Portfolio123.com
* Visit: Ariston Advisors
By this author:



















































xx


Breaking News Updated at

 broke in the last few minutes - get the latest updates in Market
Currents. Updated at












TOP AUTHORS: The Opinion Leaders

TOP USERS: Commenters | StockTalkers | Instabloggers






&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Twitter &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;RSS Feeds  |  Contact
Us  |  About Us  |  Premium Program

Terms of Use | Privacy | Xignite quote data | Copyright © 2011
















