ANSYS Underscores Commitment To Quality Product Development Engineering
in India



* Tue, 06 Sep 2011 19:17
* twitter
* RSS



* Home
* Contact
* Register
* Login



* Home
* Press Release
* Events
* Resources
* RSS/Syndication
* My Account



* Browse All
* By Industry
* By Subject
* International





Browse more on » Education, New products/services


ANSYS Underscores Commitment To Quality Product Development Engineering
in India


Launches Innovative Education Projects for Engineering Students to
strengthen core education fundamentals and provide career paths
Tweet


Bengaluru, Karnataka, September 6, 2011 /India PRwire/ -- ANSYS Software
Private Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of ANSYS Inc., (NASDAQ: ANSS)
today announced the launch of its competitive sponsorship based projects
for engineering students across India. The primary objective of this
innovative programme is to develop technology and engineering skills,
improve employability in the industry as well as benefit ANSYS to enhance
its collaboration with students. Gautam Dutta, Country Manager of ANSYS
India said "This unique initiative, strongly focused on developing the
scientists, technologists and engineers of the future, is the first of
it's kind by ANSYS globally. We want to provide students in India with a
platform to understand and experience the product development process.
ANSYS India team has designed what I believe are challenging problems
that students can collaboratively work on".

Students can choose any of the twelve (12) projects as their main
semester/quarter project listed from the approved list. The timeline for
submission will be approximately three months from the date of final
agreement. The individual student should take up this project
independently or in a group of 2-3 and may involve his/her professors, if
the student thinks so.

Dr. Kaustubh Nande, Manager- Marketing said, "These projects provide
students with an opportunity to demonstrate their experience and success
in a tangible form that employers will appreciate. The students have a
real opportunity to display their understanding of physics and software
skills to a prospective employer as they take on and work through
challenging engineering problems."

All selected projects will carry a variable sponsorship amount between
INR 25, 000 - 50, 000 post application review by ANSYS technical experts.
On successful completion of the project, winners will be awarded a
certificate from ANSYS and will be given an opportunity to present their
work at the ANSYS Annual Users Conference or a suitable avenue. In
addition, the work could be eligible to be published in ANSYS Advantage
magazine or other suitable outlets.

Dr. Murali Kadiramangalam, Director of ANSYS Academic Program said,
"Rapid adoption of CAE by industry is creating a CAE manpower shortage
worldwide. These projects will help transform students Indian into
CAE-ready professionals, implying easier placement; thereby also helping
bridge the manpower crunch"



Notes to Editor

About ANSYS

ANSYS, Inc., founded in 1970, develops and globally markets engineering
simulation software and technologies widely used by engineers and
designers across a broad spectrum of industries. The Company focuses on
the development of open and flexible solutions that enable users to
analyze designs directly on the desktop, providing a common platform for
fast, efficient and cost-conscious product development, from design
concept to final-stage testing and validation. The Company and its global
network of channel partners provide sales, support and training for
customers. Headquartered in Canonsburg, Pennsylvania, U.S.A., with more
than 60 strategic sales locations throughout the world, ANSYS and its
subsidiaries employ over 2,000 people and distribute ANSYS products
through a network of channel partners in over 40 countries. Visit
www.ansys.com for more information.

ANSYS and any and all ANSYS, Inc. brand, product, service and feature
names, logos and slogans are registered trademarks or trademarks of
ANSYS, Inc. or its subsidiaries in the United States or other countries.
All other brand, product, service and feature names or trademarks are the
property of their respective owners.






* Tools
* Printer Friendly Version
* Download as PDF
* Subscribe to News Feed
* Bookmark for later
* Share it with others

* For more information, please contact:
* Corporate Voice Webershandwick
* 
  o Surabi Shetty
  o Sr Account Supervisor
  o Email, (L) 91 80 42451216 (D), (M) 9886927844, (F) +91 80 25253887


Journalists and Bloggers
Visit India PRwire for Journalists for releases, photos, email alerts and
customized feeds just for Media.

If you have any query regarding information in the press releases, please
contact the company listed in the press release itself. Please do not
call India PRwire, we will be unable to assist you with your inquiry.



Corporate Voice Webershandwick recent press release(s)



Cognity Drills Down to Engineering Benefits with ANSYS

ANSYS Software Facilitates Groundbreaking Drill Design 75 Percent Faster
and More Cost Effectively Than Conventional Design
Aditya Birla Minacs Launches One More Delivery Center in the Philippines

35th Global Delivery Facility to Augment Minacs' Global Footprint -
MindTree Integrates its Business Intelligence/Data Warehousing and
Analytics Practices into All-Encompassing Data &amp; Analytic Solutions
Practice

World class team with proven capability to provide analytics, business
intelligence, information management and research under one roof; makes
its debut at Gartner Business Intelligence Summit






PR Distribution | India Public Relations Firms &amp; Agencies | PR Flash

© Copyright 2011 India PRwire. All Rights Reserved.
India PRwire disclaims any content contained in press release. Use of our
service is governed by our Privacy Policy and Terms of Service.


