American Chronicle | Avanir files patent infringement lawsuit against
Impax














Home | Shop | Send Us Info | Subscribe | Advertise | Help |








News

World

National News

State News

Politics

Business (World)

Business (US)

Technology

Industry

Science

Medicine

Sports

Education

Entertainment



Opinion

Latest Articles

View Topics

View Authors



Features

Latest Articles

View Topics

View Authors



Community

Join Our List



Other Sections

Affiliates

Advertise

Video










Avanir files patent infringement lawsuit against Impax








Avanir Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Avanir Holding Company and Center for
Neurologic Study have filed suit for patent infringement against Impax
Laboratories, Inc. in the District of Delaware. This action formally
initiates the patent challenge process under the Hatch-Waxman Act.

Impax Laboratories, Inc. has confirmed that it has initiated a challenge
of the patents listed in connection with Nuedexta, or dextromethorphan
hydrobromide and quinidine sulfate 20mg / 10mg, capsules.

Impax filed its Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) containing a
paragraph IV certification for a generic version of Nuedexta with the US
Food & Drug Administration (FDA). Following receipt of the notice from
FDA that Impax's ANDA had been accepted for filing, Impax notified the
New Drug Application holder and patent owners of its paragraph IV
certification.

Once the ANDA is approved by FDA, Global Pharmaceuticals, Impax's generic
division, will commercialize the product. Nuedexta is indicated for the
treatment of pseudobulbar affect (PBA).

A service of YellowBrix, Inc.
















Shop | Send Us Info | Subscribe | Advertise | Privacy Policy | Feedback |
Help




The American Chronicle, California Chronicle, Los Angeles Chronicle,
World Sentinel, and affiliates are online magazines for national,
international, state, and local news. We also provide opinion and feature
articles. We have over 5,000 contributors, over 100,000 articles, and
over 11 million visitors annually.



This website and its affiliates have no responsibility for the views,
opinions and information communicated here. The contributor(s) and news
providers are fully responsible for their content. In addition, the views
and opinions expressed here are not necessarily those of the American
Chronicle or its affiliates. All services and information provided on
this website are provided as general information only. Any medical
advice, home remedies and all other medical information on this website
should not be treated as a substitute for the medical advice of your own
doctor. We are not responsible for any diagnosis of treatment made by
anyone based on any of the content of this website. Always consult your
own doctor if you are in any way concerned about your health.




Copyright 2011 Ultio, LLC.
Web Design by Boxkite Media.





