Ticker Watch: Ex-Dividend Dates of the Day: (NYSE: BHP), (NGM: BKYF),
(NASDAQ: BRKS), (NYSE: CBS), (NASDAQ: CBSH)








































































































Pages



* Home
* World Market Overview
* Day Trading Radio
* Privacy Policy
* Contact Us















































































































Subscribe for free stock alerts!






















Tuesday, September 6, 2011






Ex-Dividend Dates of the Day: (NYSE: BHP), (NGM: BKYF), (NASDAQ: BRKS),
(NYSE: CBS), (NASDAQ: CBSH)






BHP Billiton ADS (NYSE: BHP) has an ex-dividend expiration date tomorrow.
To receive the dividend, the stock must be owned the day prior to the
ex-dividend date. The current yield is 2.7%, which comes out to be about
$2.2 for the year.

Bank of Kentucky Financial Corp (NGM: BKYF) has an ex-dividend expiration
date tomorrow. To receive the dividend, the stock must be owned the day
prior to the ex-dividend date. The current yield is 2.7%, which is
equivalent to $0.56 for the year.

Brooks Automation (NASDAQ: BRKS)'s ex-dividend date is tomorrow. To
receive the dividend, the stock must be owned the day prior to the
ex-dividend date. The current yield is 3.8%, which is equivalent to $0.32
for the year.

CBS Cl B (NYSE: CBS) is going ex-dividend tomorrow. To receive the
dividend, the stock must be owned the day prior to the ex-dividend date.
The current yield is 1.7%, which is $0.4 for the year.

Commerce Bancshares Inc (NASDAQ: CBSH)'s ex-dividend date is tomorrow. To
receive the dividend, the stock must be owned the day prior to the
ex-dividend date. The current yield is 2.5%, which comes out to be about
$0.92 for the year.






Posted by Eric Savoie at 9:57 AM

























Newer Post Older Post Home














Breaking News



Loading...































Please Donate








































 

 






The reports on this site are for information purposes only and are not a
recommendation for the purchase of securities. The information contained
in these reports have been gathered from sources we believe to be
reliable, however, we make no guarantee as to the accuracy or
completeness to such information.



























