CA Technologies Helps NEC Offer Comprehensive Systems Management for
Improved IT Services -- ISLANDIA, N.Y., Sept. 6, 2011 /PRNewswire/ --










See more news releases in: Computer Electronics, Computer Software,
Networks











CA Technologies Helps NEC Offer Comprehensive Systems Management for
Improved IT Services



















My news for Investors

AtLeast one of the check box should be selected You are following news
about Follow the latest news about CA












NEC Incorporates CA Configuration Automation into its WebSAM and
MasterScope Suite of Products









Download image





ISLANDIA, N.Y., Sept. 6, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- CA Technologies (NASDAQ:
CA) today announced that NEC Corp. is licensing CA Configuration
Automation r12.5 to enhance its systems management product suite, known
as WebSAM in Japan and MasterScope outside of Japan. The addition of CA
Configuration Automation to NEC's product suite will help customers to
expedite their move to a virtualized, dynamic cloud computing
infrastructure.

NEC selected CA Configuration Automation based on its ability help
increase business agility, reduce cost, minimize IT compliance risks and
improve service delivery. CA Configuration Automation will enable these
benefits by providing application and system discovery and dependency
mapping, as well as configuration monitoring and remediation, across a
range of applications and distributed physical and virtual servers.

"The adaptable integration interfaces, extended capabilities and support
of CA Configuration Automation were key to helping us develop practical,
cost-effective solutions for customers' cloud management challenges,"
said Motoyasu Akatsu, vice president and executive general manager, NEC
Corporation. "Based on our long-term partnership, CA Technologies clearly
understands NEC's customer needs and delivers the right technology, the
right licensing terms and services that meet our challenging
requirements."

Key features of CA Configuration Automation, a key part of the
fast-growing, next-generation CA Service Automation portfolio, include
granular configuration tracking and auditing; more than 1000
out-of-the-box application, service, compliance and system blueprints and
policies; and the flexibility of using either agent or agent-less
discovery methods.

NEC plans to first incorporate CA Configuration Automation into its
"WebSAM DC Operations Package," which enhances cloud and data center
operations. This addition will provide the foundation for a powerful,
flexible and valuable management infrastructure that supports IT
operations with automation, visualization, and change and configuration
to help deliver a higher level of service quality to customers.

"To survive and thrive in today's global marketplace, companies must
optimize their ability to deliver flexible IT services, while also
controlling costs and mitigating risk," said Buster Brown, president and
representative director, CA Technologies Japan. "We are pleased that NEC
sees how CA Configuration Automation can help their customers achieve
these goals."

For additional information about CA Configuration Automation, visit:

* CA Configuration Automation Product Brief
* CA Configuration Automation Demonstration
* CA Technologies Virtualization and Service Automation press kit
* CA Technologies on Virtualization and Automation blog
* @CAvirtualAuto on Twitter


(Logo:  http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20100516/NY05617LOGO )

About CA Technologies

CA Technologies (NASDAQ: CA) is an IT management software and solutions
company with expertise across all IT environments – from mainframe and
distributed, to virtual and cloud. CA Technologies manages and secures IT
environments and enables customers to deliver more flexible IT services.
CA Technologies innovative products and services provide the insight and
control essential for IT organizations to power business agility. The
majority of the Global Fortune 500 relies on CA Technologies to manage
evolving IT ecosystems. For additional information, visit CA Technologies
at www.ca.com.

Follow CA Technologies

* Twitter
* Social Media Page
* Press Releases
* Podcasts


Legal Notices

Copyright © 2011 CA. All Rights Reserved. One CA Plaza, Islandia, N.Y.
11749. All trademarks, trade names, service marks, and logos referenced
herein belong to their respective companies.

Press Contacts


David Resnic
CA Technologies
(508) 628-8426
david.resnic@ca.com



SOURCE CA Technologies
Back to top

RELATED LINKS
http://www.ca.com












Next in Computer Electronics News






Custom Packages


Browse our custom packages or build your own to meet your unique
communications needs.

Start today.






PR Newswire Membership


Fill out a PR Newswire membership form or contact us at (888) 776-0942.




Learn about PR Newswire services


Request more information about PR Newswire products and services or call
us at (888) 776-0942.






My News




Featured Video










* Print
* Email
* &nbsp;&nbsp;RSS
* Google

* 
               WordPress Blog URL:

               


* 




More in These Categories





Computer Electronics



* 

  Hotels.com Launches Integrated Marketing Campaign Surrounding its
  Mobile Booking App


* 

  VIZIO's Breakthrough 8" Tablet Delivers Enhanced Performance for Easier
  and Faster Access to Your Favorite Entertainment


* 

  Kabel Deutschland, Germany's Largest MSO, Selects Concurrent for
  Multi-Screen Video Delivery





Most Read



* Aug 30, 2011, 05:00 ET Apartments.com and CareerRookie.com Release
  the Fourth Annual Top 10 Best Cities for Recent College Graduates List
* Aug 29, 2011, 12:12 ET DISH Network Introduces Tailgater - Portable
  Satellite System Ideal for RV's, Camping and Tailgating
* Jul 29, 2011, 09:30 ET Red Carpet Manicure, LLC to Launch the First
  At-Home Professional Salon Gel Nail Polish System at ULTA



Most Emailed



* Aug 30, 2011, 05:00 ET Apartments.com and CareerRookie.com Release
  the Fourth Annual Top 10 Best Cities for Recent College Graduates List
* Aug 22, 2011, 08:00 ET Pre-Paid Legal Services Announces New
  Direction for the Company at 2011 Leadership Summit
* Aug 31, 2011, 13:00 ET PCMA Outlines $100 Billion in Prescription
  Drug Savings for Deficit Reduction Committee







Journalists and Bloggers




Visit PR Newswire for Journalists for releases, photos, ProfNet experts,
and customized feeds just for Media.

View and download archived video content distributed by MultiVu on The
Digital Center.


Free Investing Newsletter from Investor Uprising!


Learn to navigate the world's financial system and profit from leading
companies. 


Register for Investor Uprising, the people's investment site, for a free
weekly newsletter, information, education and premium research including
our latest IU Confidential Report - "All The Glitters:&nbsp;The Ultimate
Gold Report".







* Site Preview
*  Close Site Preview
* View FullScreen













Advanced Search
Search



 Products & Services     News Releases






Close






 




1. Send a release
2. Member sign in
3. Become a member
4. For journalists
5. Global sites




1. Products &amp; Services
2. Knowledge Center
3. Browse News Releases
4. Contact PR Newswire



1. About PR Newswire
2. Contact PR Newswire
3. PR Newswire's Terms of Use Apply
4. Careers
5. Privacy
6. Site Map
7. RSS Feeds
8. Blog

Copyright © 2011 PR Newswire Association LLC. All Rights Reserved.
A UBM plccompany.




1. Become a member
2. 
3. 
4. Request more information
5. Call us
6. Send us feedback



1. Online Member Center
2. MEDIAtlas
3. Media Monitoring
4. ProfNet
5. My News for Investors



1. Argentina
2. Asia
3. Brazil
4. Canada
5. Europe
6. France
7. Israel
8. Mexico
9. Netherlands
10. United Kingdom


