5 Stocks To Post Gains Despite Economic Uncertainty - Seeking Alpha






* See the difference! Customize Seeking Alpha: Sign in or join
* 


Seeking Alpha

















* Home |
* Portfolio |
* Market Currents |
* Long &amp; Short Ideas |
* Investing for Income |
* ETFs &amp; Portfolio Strategy |
* Macro View |
* Earnings
* 













5 Stocks To Post Gains Despite Economic Uncertainty



by: Brian Nichols September 6, 2011  |  includes: COOL, DFS, KR, LULU,
RIMM
   






* Font Size:

* Print

* Email
* Recommend

  0



  Share this page


  Share





August was horrible, with the first 10 days posting a loss of more than
11% on the Dow Jones. The second half of the month we saw light and began
to trend higher, which gave investors a reason to be optimistic about the
future. Yet September has started rough. After considering what's ahead,
I am no longer optimistic about the start of the new month. Throughout
September, there will be several important announcements which could
affect the trend of the markets or push the major indices lower. Below is
a look at a few key dates, what they could mean for the market, and five
stocks that could see gains despite the trend.

I am expecting more losses from the markets during September, as there
are several key events scattered throughout the month, each presenting a
strong chance to move the markets lower if investors hear something
unpleasant.

* Sept. 8: President Obama speaks on jobs and unveils a proposal to
  create new jobs. This is not what I expect to drive the markets lower,
  although it could. I expect Congress' reaction will drive the markets
  lower as I expect it to be reluctant to agree to any plan that will
  increase spending. If the market believes that Congress may not approve
  the plan or if the markets believe Obama's plan is unrealistic, it
  could drive the markets lower as investors may believe that Washington
  is running out of options.
* Sept. 15: Greece needs more aid. Greece has arguably the most
  significant financial crisis in Europe, which plays a large role in its
  overall financial health. Investors are hopeful that Greece receives
  aid quickly and without any problems. A large portion of the loss
  experienced in early August was related to the European debt crisis as
  high sovereign debt affected the stock of American banks. Financial
  institutions across America posted losses with the same intensity as
  European banks, despite being completely different institutions.
* Sept. 20: All eyes will be on Ben Bernanke, once again, as investors
  are still hopeful the chairman will implement some type of quantitative
  easing. Bernanke spoke in Jackson Hole last month, insinuating that
  federal aid was being explored and could potentially come in the
  future. I do not believe that investors will get anything positive out
  of this speech. Bernanke was correct on his analysis of the economy as
  large corporations are posting strong earnings and regardless of speed,
  the economy is growing.
* Sept. 30: The short-sale ban for many European financial stocks will
  be discussed and possibly lifted for the countries that implemented the
  regulation. I do not believe the ban will be lifted as the countries
  are in no position to open the banks to more loss. However, I do not
  believe the ban has been successful, and further reflects an act of
  desperation. Despite its relevance, if the ban is lifted, I believe it
  will have a strong impact on financial institutions in America since
  our banks trade heavily on global financial news. I cannot imagine U.S.
  markets trending higher if the ban is lifted, regardless of its meaning.

These events are almost perfectly positioned throughout the month to
cause potential distress within the markets. Investors have a pessimistic
view as the market is cautious to post large gains on positive
developments but trends very low on news with little importance. This
reflects our consumer confidence levels, which are at lowest levels in
several years, as investors are not confident, in our markets or economy.

Getting to the Point

Despite uncertainty, there are a few potential bright spots within the
market during September. Several companies will release earnings during
the month and present the likelihood of outperforming previous years
earnings by a large margin. Below is a brief look at five stocks and why
I believe each could see gains, as a result of earnings, despite economic
uncertainty.

Lululemon Athletica (LULU) will be announce earnings on Sept. 9. The
company is experiencing a high level of growth as its yoga-inspired
fitness apparel has become increasingly popular among women across North
America. During the most recent quarter, the company posted revenue of
$186.8 million, a gain of 35%, and net income of $33.4 million, a gain of
more than 70% year-over-year. The company has released guidance with
revenue of $200-205 million for the upcoming quarter. Below is an
unlinked chart of the company's last five earnings, from Reuters, which
shows the company has outperformed EPS four of the last five times with
one quarter on the high end of expectations. The company has consistently
given guidance and outperformed its own guidance; I expect this quarter
to be no different with the stock posting large gains after earnings are
released.

Last Five Estimates for Lululemon Athletica
Q2 0.22 






Q1 0.32 






Q4 0.18 






Q3 0.15 






Q2 0.135 








The Kroger Company (KR) will announce earnings on Sept. 9. The stock is
currently trading near the same price as it was three months ago when it
announced last quarter earnings. The stock posted gains of more than 5%
after posting strong earnings and a solid outlook for the future. I
expect the second quarter to be similar as the company has now posted 30
consecutive quarters of increased sales along with four of the last five
quarters exceeding EPS expectations, which can be viewed on the chart
below. I anticipate the company to continue the trend of increased sales
along with beating expectations which should provide moderate gains as
the stock is priced near the middle of its 52-week range.

Last Five Estimates for The Kroger Company
Q2 0.7 






Q1 0.46 






Q4 0.32 






Q3 0.41 






Q2 0.58 








Majestic Entertainment Company (COOL) is a small cap stock expected to
announced earnings on September 12. This stock has posted yearly gains of
250% as sales from the best-selling video game Zumba, among others, sent
the company to a new level of profitability. However, since the company
announced earnings on June 14, the stock has fallen 45% despite 300%
growth in revenue year-over-year along with strong income. With the stock
price so low I am especially optimistic of its reaction to the upcoming
earnings report. The stock has posted gains of 16% over the last month as
news of Zumba 2 and Parking Wars 2 gave investors a reason to be excited.
Earnings should be significantly stronger than last year and I expect
guidance to increase with the upcoming sequels being released. With the
price so low there's no reason the reaction from the market will not be
positive as this company continues to grow with no debt on its balance
sheet.

Research in Motion (RIMM) will announce earnings on Sept. 15. The stock
has lost more than 45% of its value year-to-date as investors fear the
company has lost its edge over competitors. The stock has gained over 25%
during the last month as a bottom for the stock has been reached allowing
the stock to trend higher to appropriate levels. I expect controversy
surrounding this company's upcoming earnings report as investors have
strong opinions regarding the company with both sides presenting valid
arguments. The company lowered full year and second quarter guidance
after the first quarter earnings were released, which further added to
the company's downtrend. I believe the loss was exaggerated, which could
explain the recent gains from the company's stock. I also believe this
stock presents a strong possibility to post large gains following its
earnings for two reasons. The company released new handset products, not
too long ago, pricing the products very competitively along with older
models being offered at prices of $0.01 or free with a subscription to a
service provider. Regardless of how some investors, or consumers, feel
about the Blackberry products, many consumers prefer Blackberry and there
are many more who will take advantage of its cheap price. I expect for
sales during this quarter to be substantially high since the company did
not compete with a new Apple (AAPL) device at the time of its release.
The second reason can be seen by looking at the below chart. The company
has done a great job at setting realistic goals that can be achieved and
surpassed as RIMM has posted EPS that either exceeded or posted towards
the high end of guidance each of the last five quarters. I expect this
quarter to be no different as I am certain the company will meet guidance
and possibly exceed as I expect new phone sales to be substantially
higher, with new products released. Therefore, I anticipate the stock
posting substantial gains as it's currently trading with a price to
earnings under 5.0 along with decent forward looking statements as new
products are set to arrive later in the year.

Last Five Estimates for Research in Motion
Q2 1.33 






Q1 1.78 






Q4 1.74 






Q3 1.46 






Q2 1.38 








Discover Financial Services (DFS) will announce earnings on Sept. 19.
Despite trading as part of the financial sector, the stock has posted
yearly gains of nearly 53%. During the most recent quarter, the company
announced all-time record quarterly earnings of $600 million or $1.09 a
share. This financial stock continues to impress by posting earnings that
exceed expectations on a regular basis, which can be seen below. I
believe the stock is a strong buy, both before earnings for short term
gains and long term for several years of large gains. I am confident this
company will surpass expectations, as it's done consistently, and will
offer large gains to investors who hold through earnings. The stock is
trading near the same price as it was before last earnings report, which
was followed by the stock reaching 52-week highs and posting large gains.
I anticipate the stock posting gains from this point forward as more
investors will buy to profit from the company's growth, and with a price
to earnings of 8 it just adds to the reasons to take advantage of this
fast growing undervalued stock.

Last Five Estimates
Q3 1.09 






Q2 0.84 






Q1 0.64 






Q4 0.47 






Q3 0.33 








Disclosure: I am long COOL.

Additional disclosure: I may initiate a long position in LULU, DFS over
the next 72 hours.




This article is tagged with: Long &amp; Short Ideas, Quick Picks &amp;
Lists

More articles by Brian Nichols &raquo;

* 5 Stocks With Opportunity In Consumer Goods Despite A Rough Economy
  Today
* September Will Likely Be Bad and May Affect These Undervalued Stocks
  Sun, Sep 4
* These Financial Stocks Prepare For A Bumpy Road Fri, Sep 2





4 Companies Trading Under $5 That Could Double

Sun, Aug 28

by Brian Nichols


These 6 Small-Cap Value Stocks Have Posted Big Gains and Could See...

Wed, Aug 17

by Brian Nichols


War On Research In Motion Ends: 'Crackberries' Re-Enter The Streets

Today

by Cameron Kaine


Android Munches Market Share, RIM's Decline Continues

Today

by Trefis




5 Stocks Under $5 That Have Tripled in 2011

Fri, Jul 15

by Alex Shadunsky


Zynga's Red Hot IPO Could Set Gaming Stocks on Fire

Wed, May 25

by Mark Gomes


Why These Stocks Could Be Ripe Targets for Shorts

Fri, Apr 15

by Rougemont


Majesco Entertainment: What's in a Name?

Fri, Apr 15

by Jon Slotnick




Apple Should Be Selling Much Higher, Why It Isn't

Fri, Sep 2

by John Tobey


Why Research In Motion Will Be A $50 Stock

Thu, Sep 1

by Cameron Kaine


Is $35 RIM's Magic Number?

Wed, Aug 31

by Chris Lau


Calling The Bottom On 5 Stocks

Wed, Aug 31

by Cameron Kaine






You may also like




















* Recommend

  0



  Share this page


  Share






* Email
* Print







Comments (0)

Be the first to comment on this article




Add a comment















Load All Comments



























About the author: Brian Nichols










Brian Nichols is a value investor who places an emphasis on fundamentals
with a common sense approach. The goal - to find stocks and industries
that are significantly undervalued that could present large gains in the
future. This strategy is simple, a common sense approach, that's been
largely... More






* Company: AwesomePC123
* Blog: Portfolio










Brian Nichols




* (76)
* 
* (22)
* (9)
* (254)
* Profile












Send Message








You are currently following Brian Nichols
Stop Following






You are no longer following Brian Nichols

























































xx


Breaking News Updated at

 broke in the last few minutes - get the latest updates in Market
Currents. Updated at












TOP AUTHORS: The Opinion Leaders

TOP USERS: Commenters | StockTalkers | Instabloggers






&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Twitter &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;RSS Feeds  |  Contact
Us  |  About Us  |  Premium Program

Terms of Use | Privacy | Xignite quote data | Copyright © 2011
















