Analyzing My 5 Favorite Stocks: Still Buying At Current Levels - Seeking
Alpha






* See the difference! Customize Seeking Alpha: Sign in or join
* 


Seeking Alpha

















* Home |
* Portfolio |
* Market Currents |
* Long &amp; Short Ideas |
* Investing for Income |
* ETFs &amp; Portfolio Strategy |
* Macro View |
* Earnings
* 













Analyzing My 5 Favorite Stocks: Still Buying At Current Levels



by: Cameron Kaine September 6, 2011  |  includes: AAPL, CSCO, GLBC, GOOG,
HPQ, LVLT, MSFT, NFLX, ORCL, RIMM, SAP, SIRI, T
   






* Font Size:

* Print

* Email
* Recommend

  0



  Share this page


  Share







Company
 

Ticker
 

Percentage
 

Shares Traded
 

Current Price


Sirius XM Radio
 

(SIRI)
 

Rose 1.1%
 

342 Million
 

$1.72


Cisco Systems
 

(CSCO)
 

Rose 0.5%
 

270 Million
 

$15.41


Level 3 Communication
 

(LVLT)
 

Fell 1.1%
 

95 Million
 

$1.72


Research In Motion
 

(RIMM)
 

Rose 3.2%
 

96 Million
 

$30.12


Oracle Corp
 

(ORCL)
 

Rose 1.2%
 

158 Million
 

$26.97



Sirius XM

For the week Sirius XM rose 1.1 percent to a price of $1.72 on 342
million shares traded. The stock saw a high of $1.87 on Wednesday but
then eventually succumbed to the overall market declines. In previous
articles, I reminded Sirius investors on the pending arrival of a price
increase in its base subscription rate and then suggested that the
increase will come at no less than 2 dollars. In both articles, I used
Netflix’s (NFLX) price increases to offer a correlation of what Sirius
may experience upon the announcement. In the comparison, I offered the
following:

* With such pricing expertise, I can’t help but wonder if Sirius XM has
  taken notice? After all, Sirius continues to be compared to Netflix as
  well as many other subscription services. But what (if anything) has
  Sirius been able to learn from Netflix? With only four months remaining
  from its first ability to raise (non-royalty) rates, investors have to
  wonder that not only does management already know by how much rates
  will raise but also how to sell it to the subscriber; “It” being “the
  value.”
* Each time it has instituted a price increase, the stock has soared.
  It raised prices recently in July, only seven months after it had
  already raised rates in November of 2010. With such pricing expertise,
  I can’t help but wonder if Sirius XM has taken notice? After all,
  Sirius continues to be compared to Netflix and many other subscription
  services.

My comparison to Netflix was not well received by several readers; a
couple of whom suggested the following:

* “Cameron, you really impugn your integrity every time you make false
  statements like this.”
* "Your statement about July is wrong. You can spin it anyway you want
  by using dates outside the actual range but that is only a weak attempt
  to obfuscate the truth. You are trying to make a case for the combined
  November 2010 and July 2011 prices hikes. I am only talking about the
  July 60% hike."
* “If I understand it right, you are comparing Netflix reaction to a
  price increase (where Bilton points out some great points to prove you
  delusional) to what a price increase by SIRI would have on its stock
  price? That attempt at a predicted correlation is so off base!”

While it is true that since the price increase Netflix has experienced a
decline, it does not change the fact that the stock had risen upon the
announcement. I then explained that if one if “buy-and-hold guy” (nothing
wrong with that), I can see why he/she would take this point of view. But
the fact is, from July 1st the stock has risen from $262 to $304. If one
held during that period then a loss would likely have been the result.
But it does not change the fact of what the stock has done since the
announcement; which by the way was hinted upon since the middle of June
when the stock traded in the $240s. Also, if we date back to the
announced price increase last November, the stock traded at $167 and only
six months later, it reached $270 due to the increased revenue; one that
Sirius will also experience.

Cisco Systems

For the week, Cisco rose half of 1 percent to a price of $15.41 on 270
million shares traded. I recently listed Cisco amongst my five stocks
that not only has reached its bottom but also is poised to double. My
reason has had to do with the company&rsquo;s turnaround and its
rededication to its core business. In an article last week, Seeking Alpha
contributor, Kraken also expects the stock to double but noted a longer
term horizon of five years. While I expect the double to arrive much
sooner; likely in 12 to 24 months, I agreed completely with the article’s
premise.

* So why should we like the stock now? It is simple, it's very cheap
  and CEO John Chambers has already started to restructure the company by
  cutting cost and going back to its core business model. Due to lower
  than expected profit, Cisco cut annual costs by $1 billion in July 2011.
* The company cut around 3,000 employees with an early-retirement
  program who accepted buyout and 7,000 jobs that would be eliminated by
  the end of August 2011. Cutting as many as 10,000 jobs means around 14
  percent of the 73,400 total employees before curtailment. Cisco is also
  beating companies like Dell and HP in the X86 market now as the company
  tries to get its edge back
* Another reason why I think Cisco should see $30 a share is because
  Cisco's management has put in place massive buyback programs. Last
  year, they added another $10 billion to the repurchase program.
  Although Cisco is known to dilute the stock with employee stock
  options, overall the shares outstanding are increasing at an
  overwhelming rate.

After some tough changes by CEO, John Chambers, the company is now
looking incredibly fit after reporting profits that beat analysts’
estimates. Excluding some costs, profit was 40 cents a share compared to
the expected 33 cents. Sales rose 3.3% to $11.2 billion in the period,
which ended July 30, compared with an estimate of $10.98 billion. Maybe
Cisco’s success has given me a dose of confidence because I now feel that
it may be time for it to take on another venture.

While the market did not take too kindly to HP’s (HPQ) decision to scrap
the tablet and possibly its PC business, I think HP&rsquo;s loss should
be Cisco&rsquo;s gain as Cisco will gain share in its own Cius tablet
efforts. It is been reported that the Cius tablet has already generated
more interest in application downloads than previously expected; to the
degree of 5,000 applications.

Level 3 Communications

For the week Level 3 fell 1.1 percent to a price of $1.72 on 95 million
shares traded. Something very interesting occurred this week that I think
in which Level 3 investors should take particular interest. On Thursday,
an antitrust law suit was filed against AT&amp;T (T) in its proposed bid
to acquire T-Mobile. It appears that telecom mergers are now becoming
more scrutinized. The lawsuit seeking to block AT&T takeover of T-Mobile
is a sign that shows a more aggressive antitrust stance by the U.S.
Justice Department that limits prospects for other big telecommunications
deals, antitrust analysts said. The question is, how will this affect
Level 3&rsquo;s bid to acquire Global Crossing (GLBC); A deal that was
anticipated to close by the end of the year?

The terms which have recently been agreed upon by both companies allowed
Global Crossing shareholders to receive 16 shares of Level 3 common stock
for each share of Global Crossing common stock or preferred stock that is
owned at closing. Based on Level 3’s closing stock price on April 8, when
the deal was first announced, it valued the transaction at $23.04 per
Global Crossing common or preferred share, or approximately $3.0 billion.
Not to the degree of the $39 billion that AT&T is offering for T-Mobile.
Investors should continue to pay close attention to this suit and its
result will likely offer a glimpse into the prospect of Level 3’s deal.

Research In Motion

For the week the stock rose 3.2 percent to a price of $30.12 on 96
million shared traded. Last week I detailed why I felt the stock was
going to $50. As much as disappointment that investors have felt
regarding the stock’s performance, the reality is that RIM’s devices
still make up 42% of the smart phones currently in use in Canada. Not to
mention, despite what many (including myself) would consider a tough Q4,
2010's global unit sales for Research in Motion actually grew by 38%.
Despite growing challenges during that time, RIM has managed to grow
earnings every year since 2005.

RIM’s new QNX operating system has the potential to once and for all
address the current demands of RIMs consumers, which are apps and lots of
them. RIM has had the advantage of seeing the effects of the Apple’s
(AAPL) iPhone, Google’s (GOOG) Android as well as Microsoft's (MSFT)
Windows Mobile phones on the market. The consumer demands have been
pretty consistent. Where RIM once focused primarily on the enterprise, it
should now have an opportunity to make some headway on the consumer
market. I am now bullish on the company and feel that most of the
negative news has now been priced into the stock and more realistic
expectations have been set regarding its recent struggles.

Oracle

For the week, Oracle rose 1.2 percent to a price of $26.97 on 158 million
shares traded. Oracle investors recently learned of the result of one of
the company’s ongoing litigation battles with its competitors. This time
it’s with rival SAP. A recently ruled in favor of the German company and
has allowed them to pay Oracle $272 million for ill-gotten gains derived
from a 2007 security breach. If you don’t understand this ruling is in
favor of SAP, you have to consider that the original ruling was for SAP
to pay 1.3 billion only 10 months ago in the previous trial. But if you
know Oracle, the fight will continue as the company has already said that
it will seek the entire original judgment.

Litigation aside, Oracle continues to be one of my favorite holdings. Its
ability to be forward looking has caused it to set its sights not only on
virtualization, but also cloud computing technologies; which is (in my
opinion) the future of computing services. Though the stock has seen a
recent decline in value, the company itself has not disappointed. At just
under $27 per share, the stock remains incredibly cheap. Value investors
would be wise to realize at its current price it has become a stock every
investor must own.

Disclosure: I am long SIRI, RIMM, LVLT, ORCL, CSCO.




This article is tagged with: Long &amp; Short Ideas, Quick Picks &amp;
Lists



3 Reasons Why Bears Think Apple Can Fail (And Why It Will Not)

Today

by Rocco Pendola


War On Research In Motion Ends: 'Crackberries' Re-Enter The Streets

Today

by Cameron Kaine


Satellite Radio 2.0 Points To Sirius Raising Rates By $2

Fri, Sep 2

by Cameron Kaine


Why Research In Motion Will Be A $50 Stock

Thu, Sep 1

by Cameron Kaine




Will Windows 8 Merge The Desktop With The Smartphone?

Today

by Erick Schonfeld


3 Short And 4 Long Ideas Based On Fair Value Estimates

Today

by Dr. Osman Gulseven


Does Amazon Have An iPad Killer Up Its Sleeve?

Today

by Michael K. Dawson


Stock Stress Test: Apple Looks Fairly Valued

Today

by David Nelson




Sirius XM Subscribers: Get Ready For A Price Increase

Wed, Aug 31

by Cameron Kaine


Calling The Bottom On 5 Stocks

Wed, Aug 31

by Cameron Kaine


iTunes Match Getting Ready To Launch - Should Others Worry?

Wed, Aug 31

by Spencer Osborne


Positioning Your Portfolio For A Bear Market

Today

by Thomas Lott






You may also like




















* Recommend

  0



  Share this page


  Share






* Email
* Print







Comments (0)

Be the first to comment on this article




Add a comment















Load All Comments



























About the author: Cameron Kaine










Cameron is conservative investor that believes in both fundamental as
well as technical analysis. My investments are based on factors such as
the quality of a company's management, growth prospects, return on
equity, price-to-earnings ratio, and macroeconomic factors. I'm an
Investor who seeks... More















Cameron Kaine



* on Long Ideas

* on Services

* on Technology





* (158)
* (101)
* (36)
* (3,496)
* Profile












Send Message








You are currently following Cameron Kaine
Stop Following






You are no longer following Cameron Kaine

























































xx


Breaking News Updated at

 broke in the last few minutes - get the latest updates in Market
Currents. Updated at












TOP AUTHORS: The Opinion Leaders

TOP USERS: Commenters | StockTalkers | Instabloggers






&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Twitter &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;RSS Feeds  |  Contact
Us  |  About Us  |  Premium Program

Terms of Use | Privacy | Xignite quote data | Copyright © 2011
















