The Zacks Analyst Blog Highlights: Cisco Systems, Microsoft, Juniper
Networks, Hewlett Packard and... -- CHICAGO, Sept. 6, 2011 /PRNewswire/ --










See more news releases in: Banking & Financial Services, Investments
Opinions











The Zacks Analyst Blog Highlights: Cisco Systems, Microsoft, Juniper
Networks, Hewlett Packard and F5 Networks



















My news for Investors

AtLeast one of the check box should be selected You are following news
about Follow the latest news about JNPR
Follow the latest news about HPQ
Follow the latest news about CSCO
Follow the latest news about MSFT
Follow the latest news about FFIV
















Download image





CHICAGO, Sept. 6, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- Zacks.com announces the list of
stocks featured in the Analyst Blog. Every day the Zacks Equity Research
analysts discuss the latest news and events impacting stocks and the
financial markets. Stocks recently featured in the blog include: Cisco
Systems, Inc. (Nasdaq: CSCO), Microsoft (Nasdaq: MSFT), Juniper Networks
(NYSE: JNPR), Hewlett Packard Company (NYSE: HPQ) and F5 Networks
(Nasdaq: FFIV).

(Logo:  http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20101027/ZIRLOGO)

Get the most recent insight from Zacks Equity Research with the free
Profit from the Pros newsletter: http://at.zacks.com/?id=5513

Here are highlights from Monday's Analyst Blog:

Cisco Fortifies Collaboration Suite

Cisco Systems, Inc. (Nasdaq: CSCO) recently acquired San Francisco based
privately held software company, Versly, for an undisclosed amount. All
Versly employees will be integrated into Cisco's Collaboration Software
Group (CSG) upon closure of the deal.

Versly integrates collaboration capabilities via a plug-in into Microsoft
(Nasdaq: MSFT) Office applications, simplifying everyday computing. More
specifically, it enables effective collaboration around content in
documents, Excel spreadsheets, PowerPoint presentations and emails. The
acquisition will allow Cisco to provide enhanced collaboration products
to customers from Microsoft Office documents.

The Versly software will be integrated into Cisco's current collaboration
products, including Cisco Quad, Cisco Jabber and Cisco WebEx. Users will
receive automatic notifications within Cisco Quad when the content of a
document has changed. While reviewing a document, users will be able to
initiate an instant messaging session through Cisco Jabber or start a Web
conferencing session through Cisco WebEx.

Cisco Systems is a leading provider of IP-based networking and other
products. Although Cisco is taking steps to lower its cost structure by
reducing headcount, it is not ignoring growth opportunities.

On August 22, Cisco announced the acquisition of United Kingdom-based
Axiom Systems for $31 million. The deal enabled the company to extend its
network and service management technologies across its next-generation
Internet Protocol (IP) network platforms. Last month, Cisco also
announced plans to expand its presence in Canada by adding 300 workers.

Cisco is no doubt the networking leader, but competitors like Juniper
Networks (NYSE: JNPR), Hewlett Packard Company (NYSE: HPQ) through its
3Com acquisition and F5 Networks (Nasdaq: FFIV) are gradually picking up
market share.

Currently, Cisco carries a Zacks #3 Rank, indicating a short-term Hold
recommendation.

Want more from Zacks Equity Research? Subscribe to the free Profit from
the Pros newsletter: http://at.zacks.com/?id=5515.

About Zacks Equity Research

Zacks Equity Research provides the best of quantitative and qualitative
analysis to help investors know what stocks to buy and which to sell for
the long-term.

Continuous coverage is provided for a universe of 1,150 publicly traded
stocks. Our analysts are organized by industry which gives them keen
insights to developments that affect company profits and stock
performance. Recommendations and target prices are six-month time
horizons.

Zacks "Profit from the Pros" e-mail newsletter provides highlights of the
latest analysis from Zacks Equity Research. Subscribe to this free
newsletter today: http://at.zacks.com/?id=5517

About Zacks

Zacks.com is a property of Zacks Investment Research, Inc., which was
formed in 1978 by Leon Zacks. As a PhD from MIT Len knew he could find
patterns in stock market data that would lead to superior investment
results. Amongst his many accomplishments was the formation of his
proprietary stock picking system; the Zacks Rank, which continues to
outperform the market by nearly a 3 to 1 margin. The best way to unlock
the profitable stock recommendations and market insights of Zacks
Investment Research is through our free daily email newsletter; Profit
from the Pros. In short, it's your steady flow of Profitable ideas
GUARANTEED to be worth your time! Register for your free subscription to
Profit from the Pros at http://at.zacks.com/?id=5518.

Visit http://www.zacks.com/performance for information about the
performance numbers displayed in this press release.

Follow us on Twitter: http://twitter.com/zacksresearch

Join us on Facebook:
http://www.facebook.com/home.php#/pages/Zacks-Investment-Research/575536577
48?ref=ts

Disclaimer: Past performance does not guarantee future results. Investors
should always research companies and securities before making any
investments. Nothing herein should be construed as an offer or
solicitation to buy or sell any security.

Media Contact
Zacks Investment Research
800-767-3771 ext. 9339
support@zacks.com
http://www.zacks.com



SOURCE Zacks Investment Research, Inc.
Back to top

RELATED LINKS
http://www.zacks.com












Next in Banking & Financial Services News






Custom Packages


Browse our custom packages or build your own to meet your unique
communications needs.

Start today.






PR Newswire Membership


Fill out a PR Newswire membership form or contact us at (888) 776-0942.




Learn about PR Newswire services


Request more information about PR Newswire products and services or call
us at (888) 776-0942.






My News




Featured Video










* Print
* Email
* &nbsp;&nbsp;RSS
* Google

* 
               WordPress Blog URL:

               


* 




More in These Categories





Banking & Financial Services



* 

  Philippe Despres and Deborah Attali Join Winston & Strawn's Paris
  Office, Expanding Firm's Global Labor & Employment Practice


* 

  Morningstar Rebrands Hemscott Businesses


* 

  NSX Releases August 2011 ETF/ETN Data Reports; Number of ETFs Listed
  Surpasses 1300





Investments Opinions



* 

  NI Technology Updates Outlooks for Lattice Semiconductor,
  STMicroelectronics, International Rectifier, Diodes, and ON
  Semiconductor


* 

  Seven Summits Research Releases Comments on AT&T, Altera, Smithfield
  Foods, Men's Wearhouse and Pep Boys.


* 

  Critical Alerts For Research In Motion, MGM Resorts, Northrop Grumman,
  Marathon Petroleum, and Life Technologies Released By Seven Summits
  Research





Most Read



* Aug 30, 2011, 05:00 ET Apartments.com and CareerRookie.com Release
  the Fourth Annual Top 10 Best Cities for Recent College Graduates List
* Aug 29, 2011, 12:12 ET DISH Network Introduces Tailgater - Portable
  Satellite System Ideal for RV's, Camping and Tailgating
* Jul 29, 2011, 09:30 ET Red Carpet Manicure, LLC to Launch the First
  At-Home Professional Salon Gel Nail Polish System at ULTA



Most Emailed



* Aug 30, 2011, 05:00 ET Apartments.com and CareerRookie.com Release
  the Fourth Annual Top 10 Best Cities for Recent College Graduates List
* Aug 22, 2011, 08:00 ET Pre-Paid Legal Services Announces New
  Direction for the Company at 2011 Leadership Summit
* Aug 31, 2011, 13:00 ET PCMA Outlines $100 Billion in Prescription
  Drug Savings for Deficit Reduction Committee







Journalists and Bloggers




Visit PR Newswire for Journalists for releases, photos, ProfNet experts,
and customized feeds just for Media.

View and download archived video content distributed by MultiVu on The
Digital Center.


Free Investing Newsletter from Investor Uprising!


Learn to navigate the world's financial system and profit from leading
companies. 


Register for Investor Uprising, the people's investment site, for a free
weekly newsletter, information, education and premium research including
our latest IU Confidential Report - "All The Glitters:&nbsp;The Ultimate
Gold Report".











Advanced Search
Search



 Products & Services     News Releases






Close






 




1. Send a release
2. Member sign in
3. Become a member
4. For journalists
5. Global sites




1. Products &amp; Services
2. Knowledge Center
3. Browse News Releases
4. Contact PR Newswire



1. About PR Newswire
2. Contact PR Newswire
3. PR Newswire's Terms of Use Apply
4. Careers
5. Privacy
6. Site Map
7. RSS Feeds
8. Blog

Copyright © 2011 PR Newswire Association LLC. All Rights Reserved.
A UBM plccompany.




1. Become a member
2. 
3. 
4. Request more information
5. Call us
6. Send us feedback



1. Online Member Center
2. MEDIAtlas
3. Media Monitoring
4. ProfNet
5. My News for Investors



1. Argentina
2. Asia
3. Brazil
4. Canada
5. Europe
6. France
7. Israel
8. Mexico
9. Netherlands
10. United Kingdom


