Whether The Credits Have Rolled For Netflix - Seeking Alpha






* See the difference! Customize Seeking Alpha: Sign in or join
* 


Seeking Alpha

















* Home |
* Portfolio |
* Market Currents |
* Long &amp; Short Ideas |
* Investing for Income |
* ETFs &amp; Portfolio Strategy |
* Macro View |
* Earnings
* 













Whether The Credits Have Rolled For Netflix



by: Benzinga September 6, 2011  |  about: NFLX, includes: AMZN, CSTR,
DIS, LSTZA, SNE
   






* Font Size:

* Print

* Email
* Recommend

  0



  Share this page


  Share





By Jonathan Chen

News came out after the bell yesterday that Starz (LSTZA) would be
pulling its content from Netflix (NFLX) effective February 28, 2012 after
the two companies could not come to an agreement.

Netflix wanted to give Starz more than $300 million per year, according
to the Los Angeles Times, but Starz wanted tiered pricing. This means
that if you were a Netflix subscriber, you would have to pay an
additional fee over what you normally pay to Netflix every month, say
another dollar or two. While this does hurt content as it will eventually
cut out movies from Walt Disney (DIS) and Sony (SNE), the $300 million
can go elsewhere, as Mark Cuban and others have said.

Both companies are getting hammered this morning, with Liberty Media Corp
(Starz) down around 5%, and Netflix down more than 8%. There are tons of
analysts coming out this morning, both bearish and bullish alike to weigh
in on the decision.

Starz said in a statement, "This decision is a result of our strategy to
protect the premium nature of our brand by preserving the appropriate
pricing and packaging of our exclusive and highly valuable content. With
our current studio rights and growing original programming presence, the
network is in an excellent position to evaluate new opportunities and
expand its overall business."

Netflix CEO Reed Hastings spoke to Business Insider yesterday to talk
about why he let Starz walk away, and he said that Starz is much less
important people are making it out to be.

Hastings said, "While Starz was a huge part of viewing on Netflix several
years ago because it was some of the only mainstream content we offered,
over the years we spent more and more licensing great TV shows from all
four broadcast networks and many cable networks, and we have licensed 1st
run movies from Relativity, MGM, Paramount, Lionsgate and others."

"Because we've licensed so much other great content, Starz content is now
down to about 8% of domestic Netflix subscribers' viewing. As we add a
huge more content in Q4, we expect Starz content to naturally drift down
to 5-6% of domestic viewing in Q1. We are confident we can take the money
we had earmarked for Starz renewal next year, and spend it with other
content providers to maintain or even improve the Netflix experience,"
Hastings said.

Some are saying it is bearish for Netflix, as it loses a portion of its
content, and now throws an unknown into how much acquiring content will
cost the company in the future. Morgan Keegan was bearish, and lowered
its price target from $295 to $240. In the report, Morgan Keegan said,
"NFLX shares will clearly face near-term pressure as 1) price changes and
2) Starz create uncertainties around gross adds, churn, and GM. Reduce PT
to $240 (35x) from $295 (43x) as a lower multiple is warranted until
these questions are resolved."

I have seen reports that 22% of the top streaming titles on Netflix are
Starz titles, and streaming carries much higher margins, then does DVD
rentals.

Others are taking a decidedly more bullish tone, saying it shows fiscal
discipline for Netflix, and that the company will not just pay anything
to get its hands on content. Piper Jaffray even went so far as to say
that the loss of Starz could potentially allow for Netflix to spend more
on other content. Piper Jaffray notes that Starz was only 8% of Netflix
subscriber viewing. It remains Overweight.

Cuban, the billionaire entrepreneur and Dallas Mavericks owner, went so
far as to tweet that this was a smart move for Netflix. He said in
another tweet, "No one joins NFLX [Netflix] for specific content, rather
for breadth and quality'; 'Avail $ can buy more for less."

Other, simply really have no idea. Jefferies, Stifel Nicolaus, and
Merriman all left their Hold rating on shares.

Since there is so much time left between now and the expiration of the
deal, there is more than a good chance the two companies come back to the
bargaining table. Starz would have a hard time telling shareholders it
passed up $300 million, and obviously Netflix thought enough of Starz
content to offer that sum of money.

Starz could go to Amazon (AMZN) which if it does, could be another death
blow for Netflix. Amazon has been boosting up its efforts in online
video, and with more than $6 billion in cash, Amazon can easily afford
the $300 million or so for Starz content. Amazon has been racking up
deals left and right, and there is even speculation that it could buy
Hulu.

Ultimately, it is probably still too early to figure out whether this
deal will prove to be bullish or bearish for Netflix. We have to wait to
see what the next move is. This is only the first move in this chess
game. If Starz goes to a Netflix competitor, it will be seen as decidedly
bearish. If Starz comes back to the bargaining table, Netflix has their
content, and could wind up paying less for it.

One thing I do know for sure. This "drama" just got a lot more
interesting. I'm getting my popcorn ready.

ACTION ITEMS:

Bullish:

Traders who believe that Netflix showed fiscal constraint might want to
consider the following trades:

* This could be a positive for Netflix earnings, as subscribers will
  want to see the money used for other content and could potentially make
  the Netflix experience better. You may want to use this dip to add or
  initiate a position.

Bearish:

Traders who believe that Netflix is hurting itself may consider alternate
positions:

* If other content providers take this stance with Netflix, it could
  cause a loss of subscribers. This could be beneficial for Coinstar
  (CSTR) and Amazon.

Disclosure: I have no positions in any stocks mentioned, and no plans to
initiate any positions within the next 72 hours.




This article is tagged with: Services, Music &amp; Video Stores, United
States

More articles by Benzinga &raquo;

* Why Gold Is Going To $2,000 An Ounce By The End Of September Thu, Sep
  1
* Ron Paul, Master Investor Tue, Aug 30
* Is Apple's Support Of Overseas Profit Tax Holiday Its First Misstep?
  Thu, Aug 25





3 Reasons Why Bears Think Apple Can Fail (And Why It Will Not)

Today

by Rocco Pendola


3 Short And 4 Long Ideas Based On Fair Value Estimates

Today

by Dr. Osman Gulseven


Revisiting Reed Hastings Vs. Whitney Tilson: Was Tilson Right?

Today

by New Century


Netflix Starts Rolling Out In Mexico, Latin America, Caribbean

Mon, Sep 5

by TechCrunch




Does Amazon Have An iPad Killer Up Its Sleeve?

Today

by Michael K. Dawson


Netflix: The Channel Always Wins

Today

by Dana Blankenhorn


4 Long / 2 Short Ideas For September

Today

by David Urban


Amazon's Tablet Will Add To Android's Momentum

Today

by Trefis




Netflix Has Nowhere To Go But Down

Mon, Sep 5

by Kraken


Netflix's Death Spiral Begins

Fri, Sep 2

by Karl Denninger


Starz Ends Renewal Negotiations With Netflix

Thu, Sep 1

by TechCrunch


Positioning Your Portfolio For A Bear Market

Today

by Thomas Lott






You may also like




















* Recommend

  0



  Share this page


  Share






* Email
* Print







Comments (0)

Be the first to comment on this article




Add a comment















Load All Comments



























About the author: Benzinga










Benzinga is an innovative financial media outlet that empowers its users
with high-quality, unique ideas that is coveted by the Street's top
traders.






* Company: Benzinga










Benzinga




* (183)
* 
* (13)
* (6)
* (11)
* Profile












Send Message








You are currently following Benzinga
Stop Following






You are no longer following Benzinga







About this author:
* Visit author's site


















































xx


Breaking News Updated at

 broke in the last few minutes - get the latest updates in Market
Currents. Updated at












TOP AUTHORS: The Opinion Leaders

TOP USERS: Commenters | StockTalkers | Instabloggers






&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Twitter &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;RSS Feeds  |  Contact
Us  |  About Us  |  Premium Program

Terms of Use | Privacy | Xignite quote data | Copyright © 2011
















