American Chronicle | Unclear if MSU's Cox can return this week














Home | Shop | Send Us Info | Subscribe | Advertise | Help |








News

World

National News

State News

Politics

Business (World)

Business (US)

Technology

Industry

Science

Medicine

Sports

Education

Entertainment



Opinion

Latest Articles

View Topics

View Authors



Features

Latest Articles

View Topics

View Authors



Community

Join Our List



Other Sections

Affiliates

Advertise

Video










Unclear if MSU's Cox can return this week








By Brad Locke | Daily Journal, Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal, Tupelo

Sept. 06--STARKVILLE -- Chris Wilson sure hopes he has his biggest
defensive weapon available for Saturday. It would sure make his job a lot
easier.

But for now, Mississippi State head coach Dan Mullen won't say for sure
whether defensive tackle Fletcher Cox will return for this week's game at
No. 23 Auburn. The same goes for the other four players who were
suspended for last week's season opener at Memphis for violations of team
policies.

An MSU defense minus Cox, a junior, is a defense minus its anchor. That
was apparent against Memphis.

While the Bulldogs won 59-14, the defensive line didn't put a ton of
pressure on the quarterbacks, and Memphis had some success in the running
game.

Devin Jones started in Cox's place. Jones is a versatile and athletic
player, but he's no Cox. The dynamic changes drastically when he's out.

"Schematically we didn't change anything," said Wilson, the defensive
coordinator and defensive line coach. "But now you've got a 6-(foot)-4,
305-pound guy who's played a lot of football. ... But you know, you can't
replace that, you can't change that entity out.

"That's the biggest thing you miss, you miss his physical presence and
the experience that he's had."

Cox, who plays the three-technique tackle alongside nose tackle Josh
Boyd, made 6.5 tackles-for-loss and 2.5 sacks last season, and he's a
preseason All-SEC second-team pick.

Mullen has said he expects Cox and the others to be available Saturday,
but he reiterated Monday that his decision will be announced on game day.

"I'm hoping like anything obviously that Fletcher's back," Wilson said,
"but I don't know that."

Many missed tackles

The biggest defensive concern to come out of the Memphis game was
tackling. Safety Charles Mitchell said MSU missed 29 tackles, well above
the acceptable threshold.

Asked what is an acceptable number, Mitchell said, "Zero. We want it to
be in single digits if there are missed tackles."

With a lot of young faces on the field, that stat isn't too surprising.
But it must be remedied.

"Positioning on the ball was a big key factor of that," Wilson said.
"Obviously everything starts with a great alignment, once you're in
alignment and you're in position to make those plays, and those are the
things that we as coaches as well as players have got to do a better job
of this week."

Head coach Dan Mullen said he saw plenty of other things that need
addressing in practices this week.

"We had way too many yards, didn't cause enough three-and-outs, gave up a
couple of long drives," he said Monday. "They got in the red zone twice
and scored twice, and those are things that the older guys are really
going to jump on the younger guys that really aren't acceptable to our
defense."

Extra incentive?

State can achieve a couple of notable goals this weekend: Its first 1-0
start in SEC play since 1999, its first 2-0 overall start since 2000, and
Mullen's first win against an SEC Western Division team besides Ole Miss.

Mullen said he doesn't use such records to motivate himself: "Our
incentive is we have to win games to win the SEC West. That's our
incentive."

Bulldog bites

Mullen had no injury updates on Monday. ... Senior DB Marvin Bure had
five tackles on special teams at Memphis. ... Right guard Tobias Smith
recorded a team-leading six knockdowns and a 91-percent blocking grade.

brad.locke@journalinc.com

___

(c)2011 the Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal (Tupelo, Miss.)

Visit the Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal (Tupelo, Miss.) at
www.nems360.com

Distributed by MCT Information Services

A service of YellowBrix, Inc.
















Shop | Send Us Info | Subscribe | Advertise | Privacy Policy | Feedback |
Help




The American Chronicle, California Chronicle, Los Angeles Chronicle,
World Sentinel, and affiliates are online magazines for national,
international, state, and local news. We also provide opinion and feature
articles. We have over 5,000 contributors, over 100,000 articles, and
over 11 million visitors annually.



This website and its affiliates have no responsibility for the views,
opinions and information communicated here. The contributor(s) and news
providers are fully responsible for their content. In addition, the views
and opinions expressed here are not necessarily those of the American
Chronicle or its affiliates. All services and information provided on
this website are provided as general information only. Any medical
advice, home remedies and all other medical information on this website
should not be treated as a substitute for the medical advice of your own
doctor. We are not responsible for any diagnosis of treatment made by
anyone based on any of the content of this website. Always consult your
own doctor if you are in any way concerned about your health.




Copyright 2011 Ultio, LLC.
Web Design by Boxkite Media.





