Broad Market Sell-off May Have Left ImmunoCellular Therapeutics Selling
At Discount - Seeking Alpha






* See the difference! Customize Seeking Alpha: Sign in or join
* 


Seeking Alpha

















* Home |
* Portfolio |
* Market Currents |
* Long &amp; Short Ideas |
* Investing for Income |
* ETFs &amp; Portfolio Strategy |
* Macro View |
* Earnings
* 













Broad Market Sell-off May Have Left ImmunoCellular Therapeutics Selling
At Discount



by: VFC's Stock House September 6, 2011  |  about: IMUC.OB, includes: DNDN
   






* Font Size:

* Print

* Email
* Recommend

  0



  Share this page


  Share





Please note, VFC's Stock House has been monetarily compensated by JSDC
LLC on to cover IMUC for a period of 90 days. The fact that VFC has been
compensated inherently indicates a strong bias on my behalf. The goal of
my website and all articles published on my behalf is to provide
investors with information, opinions and starting points about various
companies across many sectors. It's up to each individual investor to
decide what he or she finds relevant.

Ever since the market rumble that sent shares of Dendreon (DNDN) dropping
after the company pulled its year-end sales guidance for Provenge, other
stocks in the sector followed suit and have been trading for
significantly lower prices than were available just months ago.

Some of those dropping stocks in the cancer immunotherapy sector, such as
Oncothyreon (ONTY) and Celldex Therapeutics (CLDX) have already started
to rebound from recent lows, but others, such as Immunocellular
Therapeutics (IMUC.OB), have continued to hover at significantly
discounted prices compared with where they traded before the Dendreon
crash.

With a market cap of right around forty million now, after Thursday's
trading action, and a share price to the south side of $1.50, it might be
especially worth taking not of Immunocellular Therapeutics, as this
company is developing technology that could be considered the 'next
generation' of cancer immunotherapy treatment.

The difficulties faced by Dendreon in marketing Provenge revolve around
the high cost of treatment, a cost that could have Doctors and patients
alike cautious about fronting nearly $100,000 while waiting for
reimbursement. Many insurance companies and the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services (CMS), however, have all agreed that the treatment is
reimbursable.

Imunnocellular's technology has an advantage over that of Dendreon's, and
could lead to a significantly more attractive price of treatment should
IMUC bring its technology and logistical advantage to market.

IMUC is developing ICT-107 for the treatment of the very aggressive form
of brain cancer glioblastoma (GBM). In a successful Phase I trial, 100%
of the 16 patients administered Immunocellular's ICT-107 were still alive
after one year, results stellar enough to warrant a quick transition into
Phase II trials, which are, as mentioned, ongoing.

Recently-announced follow-up data from the Phase I trial also looked
encouraging, according to information contained in a press release
announced earlier this year:

"The data show 6 out of 16 (37.6%) newly diagnosed patients who received
ICT-107 continue to show no tumor recurrence, with 3 of these patients
(18.8%) remaining disease –free for almost four years while the other 3
patients have gone more than two and a half years disease-free. No new
patients have shown disease recurrence since the last report of data in
September, 2010. No treatment-related serious adverse events have been
observed to date."

Looking to replicate those positive Phase I results, Immunocellular
recently expanded the Phase II trial from the originally-planned 15 sites
to over 20 sites that will now be able to enroll patients. Full
enrollment is expected to be achieved early in 2012, with results
expected the following year.

Where the logistical advantage comes into play has to do with the
processes involved in administering the treatment. Patients being treated
with ICT-107 need to have their dendritic cells harvested only once, in
comparison to Provenge treatment, where the patient undergoes this
process three times. Naturally, the logistical savings can be passed on
to those paying the bills and significantly reduce the costs associated
with treatment.

Immunocellular is counting on this advantage, combined with its
technology of targeting the stem cells behind the spreading of cancer, to
make a big splash in the next generation of such treatments.

These advantages and advances from the current stages of cancer
immunotherapy treatment also should have IMUC on the map as a potential
merger and acquisition target, or at the very least, as a target for a
potential major partnership.

The likes of Dendreon and other big players in the sector could view
IMUC's pipeline and technology as attractive enough to spark the
materializing of a major deal, but the potential of applying the
technology to the candidates of another company's pipeline could be
attractive as well.

In fact, a news release at the end of August announcing the appointment
of Helen Kim to the IMUC’s Board of Directors might be an indicator of
which direction the company might be going. Of note in Kim's resume, "Ms.
Kim was the president and CEO of Kosan Biosciences Inc., where she
restructured and repositioned the company prior to the successful sale of
the company to Bristol-Myers Squibb."

Her expertise and experience may fit right in with both the short and
long term goals of the company.

A volatile market, and especially volatile healthcare and cancer
immunotherapy sectors have IMUC trading significantly lower - in terms of
market cap - than many competitors at the same stages of development. The
uncertainty created by the Dendreon drop may also be contributing to the
volatility in the sector, but as noted above, IMUC may be bringing enough
to the table to warrant a hard look at the impact that this company could
have in the future of cancer immunotherapy treatment.

In the midst of a broad-market sell-off, don't let this one slip below
the radar.

Disclosure: Long IMUC. As noted above, VFC's Stock House has been
compensated by JDSC LLC to cover IMUC for a period of 90 days.




This article is tagged with: Long &amp; Short Ideas, Long Ideas,
Healthcare, Medical Instruments &amp; Supplies, United States

More articles by VFC's Stock House &raquo;

* Capstone Continues To Bank Large Orders, Demonstrate Growth Prospects
  Mon, Sep 5
* Ampio Rebounds As Study Results Published In Europe Wed, Aug 31
* 6 Healthcare Stocks Primed For A Rebound Fri, Aug 26





Top 10 Biotech Stocks Loved By Hedge Funds

Fri, Sep 2

by Insider Monkey


5 Healthcare Stocks To Consider

Thu, Sep 1

by Timeless Wealth


Stryker Corporation: Strong Company With Compelling Valuation

Today

by Dan Hennessy


2 Energy Stocks That Stand To Benefit From 'New Normal' Offshore...

Thu, Sep 1

by Amine Bouchentouf




Biopharma: The Waiting Is The Hardest Part

Wed, Aug 31

by Michael J. Ray


Post Excessive Sell-Off, September Is Still In The Wind

Tue, Aug 30

by Henry McCusker


Human Genome Sciences: A Buy For High-Risk Takers

Mon, Aug 29

by Helix Investment Management


Dendreon's Golden Age Is Still On Track

Mon, Aug 29

by VFC's Stock House




Teva Pharmaceuticals: Time To Buy

Thu, Sep 1

by Ron Sommer


Positioning Your Portfolio For A Bear Market

Today

by Thomas Lott


Daily State Of The Markets: Are Lower Prices A Fait Accompli?

Today

by David Moenning


The Big Move (Part 3): The 2011 Corn Bubble Will Burst

Today

by Justin M. Hall






You may also like




















* Recommend

  0



  Share this page


  Share






* Email
* Print







Comments (0)

Be the first to comment on this article




Add a comment















Load All Comments



























About the author: VFC's Stock House










I'm VFC. Compensation disclosure: VFC's Stock House, at times, is
monetarily compensated by third parties to provide research coverage of
certain publicly traded companies. These services are paid for in cash
and it will be noted in any published articles if I have been compensated
by a third... More






* Company: VFC's Stock House
* Blog: VFC's Stock House










VFC's Stock House



* on Healthcare

* on Industrial Goods





* (354)
* 
* (5)
* (81)
* Profile












Send Message








You are currently following VFC's Stock House
Stop Following






You are no longer following VFC's Stock House







About this author:
* Visit: VFC's Stock House


















































xx


Breaking News Updated at

 broke in the last few minutes - get the latest updates in Market
Currents. Updated at












TOP AUTHORS: The Opinion Leaders

TOP USERS: Commenters | StockTalkers | Instabloggers






&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Twitter &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;RSS Feeds  |  Contact
Us  |  About Us  |  Premium Program

Terms of Use | Privacy | Xignite quote data | Copyright © 2011
















