Positioning For Volatility And Euro Weakness In The Week Ahead - Seeking
Alpha






* See the difference! Customize Seeking Alpha: Sign in or join
* 


Seeking Alpha

















* Home |
* Portfolio |
* Market Currents |
* Long &amp; Short Ideas |
* Investing for Income |
* ETFs &amp; Portfolio Strategy |
* Macro View |
* Earnings
* 













Positioning For Volatility And Euro Weakness In The Week Ahead



by: Efficient Alpha September 6, 2011  |  includes: FCEL, GDX, HOV, NSM,
SFD, UUP
   






* Font Size:

* Print

* Email
* Recommend

  0



  Share this page


  Share





By Joseph Hogue, CFA

Last week presented a big head fake for investors. I was about five
seconds away from penning an article assuring readers that it was ok to
get back in the market even if they had missed the beginning of the
rebound. Unfortunately, Friday’s unemployment number showed that
investors may still have an opportunity to find their market bottom.

There were zero net nonfarm payroll gains last month. A country of over
300 million people with gross domestic production of almost $15 trillion
failed to create a single job; granted, a bit of an exaggeration, but the
number struck me as rather dramatic. A few sectors reported losses
including retail trade, manufacturing, construction, information
services, and public administration. The Verizon (VZ) strike accounted
for 48,000 lost in information services, so the resumption of work at the
company will help next month’s release.

Perhaps worse than the headline numbers is the loss in average hourly
earnings and average weekly hours. This is the third payroll report that
has severely disappointed the market. I remember three months ago when
the dismal July report was supposed to be a one time event before the
second half rebound. At some point, expectations become so low that even
a moderate gain will drive the market higher, but calling that point is
for smarter minds than my own. Until the Christmas hiring spree, I would
look to protect my portfolio around the release of each month’s report.
Watch the S&P500 Volatility (VIX) the week before each release for entry
points to hedge your portfolio against another bad employment report.

As bad as the jobs number was, I watched the consumer confidence data
come through with particular pain. The reading of 44.5, a dramatic fall
from 59.2 in July, was the lowest since April 2009. Particularly
depressing was the ‘jobs hard to get’ versus ‘jobs plentiful’ spread
which was the widest since November. Only 4.7% of respondents reported
jobs as plentiful while 49.1% reported jobs as hard to get making it the
highest reading in more than two decades. For investors hoping for a
rebound in confidence in next month’s reading, the drop in the jobs
report and average hourly earnings will not help to reassure consumers.

One bright spot last week was the release of personal spending which
increased .8% in July and continues at about a 2.7% annual pace. Real
consumer spending had trouble keeping up with inflation, but the decrease
in gas prices in July and August bode well for spending going forward.
The only other piece of economic data that didn’t disappoint was the
Chicago PMI report. Though the indicator dropped from July’s reading of
58.8, it remained above the all-important measure of 50 as a sign of
growth. The decline in the Dallas Fed manufacturing index and the Philly
Fed index showed that growth may not be even throughout the country.

Looking Ahead:

The Institute for Supply Management non-manufacturing index will be
released on Tuesday. July’s reading was 52.7 but the August number will
have to deal with the debt ceiling debate and the S&P downgrade.
Investors will certainly have something to cheer if the number can stay
above 50. If the number does come in below that associated with growth,
it will be another nail in the market’s coffin. I would look to a sub-50
reading and the accompanying selloff as a signal to a possible entry
point into the market.

Despite the barrage of negative data, economic activity in the
non-manufacturing sector has grown for twenty consecutive months. I would
be willing to put some of my cash to work if the ISM number comes in
below 50 and initial claims can break the 400k level for consecutive
weeks.

Eurozone GDP is also to be released on Tuesday. This was released,
partially, a few weeks ago but will now include component data as well.
The release itself, consensus view of .2%, will probably not move the
market much, but it will certainly bring back fears of Eurozone
peripherals. An article last week looked at possible ways to position for
a recession in Europe, something PIMCO’s Mohamed El-Erian puts at 50%
probability. As bad as the economy is here in the states, I would look
for relative strength in U.S. financials and the dollar compared to
European assets.

The European Central Bank will hold its policy meeting on Thursday.
Though the consensus is for no change in rate, I am going with the
opinion of El-Erian and betting on a rate cut. The economic data has been
weak and inflation seems to be sufficiently contained to warrant some
accommodation. If this happens, look for weakness in the Euro relative to
the dollar. The Greek Prime Minister is calling for a decline of 5% in
GDP this year and rumors are that the budget talks are breaking down.

A position in the PowerShares DB US Dollar Index Bullish (UUP), which
uses futures contracts to replicate the performance of the dollar against
a basket of other currencies, including the Euro, could be a way to play
relative dollar strength against the euro. Another potential positive for
the UUP came in the form of the Japanese election of Prime Minister Noda.
PM Noda and his cabinet lineup are very much a team for the status quo,
which has not worked for Japan in the last twenty years.

With the continued economic weakness on both sides of the Atlantic, any
renewed accommodation from the U.S. Fed would also weaken the dollar so I
would hedge the trade with some exposure to gold. Though I would not
necessarily pile into the commodity itself, there is potential in a pair
trade with a long position in the Market Vectors Gold Miners ETF (GDX), a
trade I supported with data in a previous article.

The U.S. trade balance is set to be released on Thursday. As the recovery
in Japan relieves the pent-up demand for auto and auto parts, the trade
deficit in the United States will most likely widen. The deficit reading
last month continued its climb to $53.1 billion. Industrial supplies were
the weak spot, though capital goods also contributed to the increase in
the deficit. Though the consensus is for a narrower deficit, even a
higher deficit may not act much to move the market. I would look to the
initial jobless claims and the ECB rate decision to be the deciding
factors of market movement as we close up the week.

Initial jobless claims is a weekly favorite given the state of
unemployment and the economy. I am not expecting anything dramatic from
the week compared to last week's 409k reading. With sentiment throughout
the business community and no real catalyst, claims should stay elevated.
Look for consecutive readings below 400k as hopeful signs of labor market
strength and a good entry point to the market.

Earnings have taken a back seat to economic data in the past few weeks,
but a few companies will see releases this week.

FuelCell Energy (FCEL) releases earnings on Tuesday. The developer and
producer of fuel cells for the clean-energy industry is set to release
after market close with a consensus of a loss of $.09 per share. The
company has beaten estimates for four consecutive quarters and losses per
share are roughly half of what they were in the prior 12 months. Despite
this, the stock has traded flat over the last year and is down over 80%
in the last three years. Investors looking for a rebound may have to
stick with the stock for a while. For exposure in the alternate energy
space, I would look to a more diversified play in one of the exchange
traded funds.

Homebuilder Hovnanian (HOV) releases third quarter results after market
close on Wednesday with a consensus loss of $.49 per share. As with the
rest of the homebuilders, Hovnanian has performed abysmally in the last
twelve months with a loss of more than 60% to trade at $1.53 on Friday.
Short interest in the company is above 30% so any surprise earnings could
force a squeeze and drive prices up considerably. Investors looking for
speculative bets might look at an options bull spread in the shares.

Call options expiring on September 17th for the strike prices of $1.00
and $1.5 are trading at midpoints of $.52 and $.15, respectively, for a
net payment of thirty-seven cents. As long as the shares do not fall
further on earnings, the bet returns 35% before taxes. For longer term
players looking for a rebound in the housing market, I would again defer
to more diversified ETFs.

Analog and mixed-signal circuit producer National Semiconductor
Corporation (NSM) releases first quarter earnings after market close on
Thursday. Consensus estimates are for $.26 per share which would be a
loss of 28% year over year. The shares surged 72% on April 5th and now
trade at over 20 times, well over the industry average of 13.3 times
earnings. Standard & Poor’s has a 12-month price target of $25 which is
barely above the current price of $24.89 and would continue its
relatively flat trading range over the last six months.

Meat processor Smithfield Foods (SFD) reports first quarter earnings
before market open on Thursday with consensus estimates of $.67 per
share. The stock is up over 25.7% in the past twelve months yet still
trades at an attractive 7.1 times earnings. Though first quarter earnings
are estimated to increase 45.7% over the same quarter last year, earnings
for the next four quarters are seen to be relatively flat. With
forecasted earnings over the next four quarters at $2.45 the P/E rises to
a still attractive 8.5 times earnings compared to the sector average of
18.1 times. The company recently completed a cost cutting program in
which it closed six plants. Key risks include volatility in hog prices
and feed commodities.

Disclosure: I have no positions in any stocks mentioned, and no plans to
initiate any positions within the next 72 hours.

Additional disclosure: The opinions expressed by the author are his own
and do not necessarily reflect those of Efficient Alpha.




This article is tagged with: Macro View, Market Outlook, United States

More articles by Efficient Alpha &raquo;

* Sam Zell On Emerging Market Real Estate: Opportunities Are 'Enormous'
  Fri, Sep 2
* Continued Weakness In Europe, And How To Position For It Thu, Sep 1
* ETF Strategies To Hedge Your Emerging Market Equity Risk Mon, Aug 29





Ballard Power: Great Karma But Poor Investment

Fri, Sep 2

by Mitch Vine


Earnings Preview: Altera And FuelCell Energy Report Quarterly...

Fri, Sep 2

by Robert Weinstein


Daily State Of The Markets: Are Lower Prices A Fait Accompli?

Today

by David Moenning


Barnyard Forecast: Conditions Are Still Positive For Higher Stock...

Today

by Rising Dividend Investing




Why You Need To Look At Fuel Cells Again

Thu, Aug 25

by Mitch Vine


Playing Liar's Poker With EVs, Lithium-Ion Batteries

Sun, Aug 21

by John Petersen


3 Dirt Cheap Electrical Stocks Buzzing With Over 100% Upside Potential

Mon, Jul 25

by Michael Lee Wealth Advising


Insider Buys and Sells: Hasbro, The Ensign Group

Sun, Jul 24

by Asif Suria




Lack Of Jobs Creates Tough Decisions For Policymakers

Sun, Sep 4

by Bernard Thomas


Thoughts On Non-Farm Payroll: Keep Your Powder Dry For Now

Sun, Sep 4

by Clean Energy Intel


Last Week's Market Movers And Lessons: A Scary Start To A Scary Month

Sun, Sep 4

by Cliff Wachtel


Is QE3 Still On The Table?

Thu, Sep 1

by Efficient Alpha






You may also like




















* Recommend

  0



  Share this page


  Share






* Email
* Print







Comments (0)

Be the first to comment on this article




Add a comment















Load All Comments



























About the author: Efficient Alpha










Efficient Alpha provides investment research & analysis solutions for
small and medium-sized businesses and investors. Our core products
include: financial newsletters, blogging, investment analysis & due
diligence, real estate analysis, and excel modeling & VBA programming.
All... More






* Company: Efficient Alpha










Efficient Alpha



* on ETF Long & Short Ideas





* (35)
* 
* (1)
* (14)
* (49)
* Profile












Send Message








You are currently following Efficient Alpha
Stop Following






You are no longer following Efficient Alpha







About this author:
* Visit Efficient Alpha


















































xx


Breaking News Updated at

 broke in the last few minutes - get the latest updates in Market
Currents. Updated at












TOP AUTHORS: The Opinion Leaders

TOP USERS: Commenters | StockTalkers | Instabloggers






&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Twitter &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;RSS Feeds  |  Contact
Us  |  About Us  |  Premium Program

Terms of Use | Privacy | Xignite quote data | Copyright © 2011
















