Ticker Watch: Stocks with Ex-Dividend Dates: (NYSE: GCI), (NASDAQ: GLDD),
(NYSE: GPC), (NASDAQ: IPCC), (NYSE: IPG)








































































































Pages



* Home
* World Market Overview
* Day Trading Radio
* Privacy Policy
* Contact Us















































































































Subscribe for free stock alerts!






















Tuesday, September 6, 2011






Stocks with Ex-Dividend Dates: (NYSE: GCI), (NASDAQ: GLDD), (NYSE: GPC),
(NASDAQ: IPCC), (NYSE: IPG)






Gannett Co Inc (NYSE: GCI) is going ex-dividend tomorrow. To receive the
dividend, the stock must be owned the day prior to the ex-dividend date.
The current yield is 3.1%, which comes out to be about $0.32 for the year.

Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Corp (NASDAQ: GLDD) has an ex-dividend
expiration date tomorrow. To receive the dividend, the stock must be
owned the day prior to the ex-dividend date. The current yield is 1.8%,
which comes out to be about $0.08 for the year.

Genuine Parts Co (NYSE: GPC) has an ex-dividend expiration date tomorrow.
To receive the dividend, the stock must be owned the day prior to the
ex-dividend date. The current yield is 3.4%, which is equivalent to $1.8
for the year.

INFINITY PROPERTY & CASUALTY (NASDAQ: IPCC) has an ex-dividend expiration
date tomorrow. To receive the dividend, the stock must be owned the day
prior to the ex-dividend date. The current yield is 1.5%, which comes out
to be about $0.72 for the year.

Interpublic Grp Of Co's (NYSE: IPG) is going ex-dividend tomorrow. To
receive the dividend, the stock must be owned the day prior to the
ex-dividend date. The current yield is 3.1%, which comes out to be
approximately $0.24 for the year.






Posted by Eric Savoie at 10:10 AM

























Newer Post Older Post Home














Breaking News



Loading...































Please Donate








































 

 






The reports on this site are for information purposes only and are not a
recommendation for the purchase of securities. The information contained
in these reports have been gathered from sources we believe to be
reliable, however, we make no guarantee as to the accuracy or
completeness to such information.



























