Hauppauge History: The First Schoolhouses - Hauppauge, NY Patch









Articles

Events

Places

Activity











* Sign Up |
* Log In

* Log Out










Hauppauge History: The First Schoolhouses


Hauppauge's early schoolhouses were very different from the Hauppauge
Public School District today.

By Rita J. Egan | 9:30am





The first Hauppauge students were educated in a small, one-room
schoolhouse. The local education system of the 1800s and early 1900s
bared little resemblance to today’s school district.


Noel Gish, a former Hauppauge High School teacher, wrote that residents
of the hamlet formed an article of association to establish an
educational building in 1804 in “Smithtown New York 1660 –
1929: Looking Back Through the Lens.” Families purchased shares in
the school in order for their children to be educated


The first school in Hauppauge was located on Townline Road, slightly east
of the Hauppauge United Methodist Church, according to historian Simeon
Wood in “A History of Hauppauge, Long Island, NY.”


The building measured 13 feet by 16 feet, and also served as the meeting
place for the founding members of the Methodist religious society before
the church was built in 1806.


Students of the first school were from the hamlet’s founding
families with last names such as Smith, Blydenburgh, Wheeler and Hubbs.
By 1834, there were 58 children ranging in age from five to 16, according
to Wood, and the academic year lasted six and one-third months.


Wood wrote that in early times children also attended the school every
other Saturday. The weekend day would be spent with students cutting
firewood and the teacher sweeping the room. When the building was
replaced, Thomas Wheeler Conkling, who then owned Thomas Wheeler’s
homestead, moved the structure to his property and used it as a
carpenter’s shop.


In 1840, a new schoolhouse was built on Schoolhouse Lane and Townline
Road, according to Jack Marr’s edition of Wood’s history book.
Today, this spot would be the west lane of Veteran’s Highway east of
the Carvel’s. This building remained standing until 1893 until it
was replaced with a newer building. The second schoolhouse that was
located on this spot had a sign over the window that read “District
School No. 6.”


A four-room schoolhouse was constructed on the spot and remained in use
until 1963. When the building was demolished in 1965, the Hauppauge Fire
Department set fire to it as part of a training drill, according to
Images of America: Smithtown by Bradley Harris, Kiernan Lannon and Joshua
Ruff.


The early schoolhouses of Hauppauge only offered first to eighth grade.
Students who wished to continue their education would attend either
Smithtown High School or Islip High School. The Hauppauge School District
we know today didn’t begin to develop until the
population grew in the hamlet after World War II leaving the little
schoolhouses behind.






Photos (5)


&nbsp;


























Want to leave a comment?

[["validates_presence_of",{"message":"Hey, you forgot to let us know how
you feel \u2014 please enter a
comment."}],["validates_length_of",{"too_long":"Easy there, Tolstoy. Your
comment cannot exceed 1500
characters.","maximum":1500,"allow_blank":true}]]










Go to desktop site ›

Copyright © 2011 Patch. All Rights Reserved.


