Himax: A Solid Long Idea - Seeking Alpha






* See the difference! Customize Seeking Alpha: Sign in or join
* 


Seeking Alpha

















* Home |
* Portfolio |
* Market Currents |
* Long &amp; Short Ideas |
* Investing for Income |
* ETFs &amp; Portfolio Strategy |
* Macro View |
* Earnings
* 













Himax: A Solid Long Idea



by: Rajat Arora September 6, 2011  |  about: HIMX
   






* Font Size:

* Print

* Email
* Recommend

  0



  Share this page


  Share





Himax Technologies (HIMX) designs display drivers for large, medium and
small-sized TFT-LCD panels used in desktop monitors, notebooks,
televisions, mobile handsets, tablet PCs, digital cameras, photo frames
and car navigation displays. Additionally, it is expanding into
developing timing and touch controllers, CMOS image sensors, and 2D to 3D
conversion solutions. The company is based in Taiwan, with ADSs trading
in US stock exchanges.

Financial Metrics
Looking at Himax's most recent balance sheet, below are some of the
interesting numbers:

* Trading Below Book Value: At the time of writing, Himax’s market
  capitalization was $228.2 million, whereas its tangible book value
  (book value - goodwill - intangible assets) at the end of Q2 2011
  (ending June 30) equaled $359.5 million. Considering that the company
  paid out an annual cash dividend of $21.2 million on July 20, its most
  recent tangible book value will equal $338.3 million. Therefore, its
  price-to-book ratio is 0.67. This means that the company is trading 49%
  (1.0/0.67) below its book value. In layman’s language, if the company
  were to be liquidated today, for every $1 invested, you will get
  approximately $1.50.
* 35% of Market Capitalization in Cash: As of Q2 2011, Himax’s cash and
  short term investments amounted to $104.1 million, the restricted cash
  equaled $57.5 million, and it had short-term debt of $57.0 million.
  Deducting the recent dividend paid by the company, the effective cash
  equaled $83.4 million. This is more than 35% of Himax’s market
  capitalization.
* High Current Ratio: The current ratio indicates the company's ability
  to pay back its short-term liabilities (debt and payables) with its
  short-term assets (cash, inventory, receivables). The higher the
  current ratio, the better the company’s capability to pay its
  obligations. As of Q2 2011, Himax’s current ratio was 2.1, indicating
  that the company is highly capable of paying its short-term obligations.

Overall, Himax’s financial metrics look decent. Companies may trade below
their book value if their balance sheets are highly leveraged (current
ratio less than 1.0), like in the case of solar companies LDK Solar (LDK)
and Suntech Power (STP). It may also happen if the companies have huge
debts on their balance sheets, such as oil refiners Valero Energy (VLO)
and Tesoro (TSO). However, Himax has none of these issues, so its
undervaluation may not be warranted.

Business Fundamentals
Looking at Himax’s business fundamentals, they are not as bad as
investors seem to think. In fact, in some cases they are encouraging.
Himax’s revenue comes from three major segments:

* Display Drivers for Large-sized TFT LCD Panels: This segment made up
  almost half of the company’s revenues. However, its contribution is
  declining over the years, and in Q3 2011, it will no longer be the
  largest revenue contributor.
* Display Drivers for Medium and Small-sized TFT LCD Panels: This
  segment which until 3-4 years back was insignificant, will become
  company’s largest revenue contributor by Q3, 2011. In the recent
  conference call, the company said: “We remain the leading player in
  high-end panel drivers for smart phone applications. Our
  industry-leading HD720 high-resolution cellphone panel driver has been
  adopted by first-tier smart phone brands with shipments expected to
  commence at the end of the third quarter. The driver IC offers an
  unrivaled color and brightness enhancement feature which is very
  popular among our customers." It is not known who are these first-tier
  smart phone customers. It may be Samsung (SSNLF.PK), whose subsidiary
  Samsung Electronics Taiwan Co., Ltd. is already among its top 10
  customers4, or it may be other leading brands such as Nokia (NOK), HTC,
  or even Apple (AAPL).
* Non-Driver Segment: This segments consists of CMOS image sensors,
  LCOS pico-projectors, 2D to 3D solution, touch panel controllers, etc.
  It will make up 15% of company's revenues by Q3 2011. In CMOS image
  sensor space, the company is suffering from low margin as it's still
  shipping a relatively high proportion of older generation products.
  Also, the company faces stiff competition from OmniVision Technologies
  (OVTI), Sony (SNE), and Aptina. The good news is the company has
  already developed newer generation of products with improved cost and
  margins, and this is the company's fastest growing non-driver product
  line. For LCOS pico-projector products, the company is seeing increased
  demand and will increase the monthly panel output from 150,000 units to
  over 250,000 units. However, in a short-term, this will negatively
  impact the gross margin. The company's 2D to 3D solution was adopted by
  several monitor and 3D projector customers. The company has also
  integrated the 2D to 3D conversion feature into timing controllers
  designed for handheld naked-eye 3D panel applications. Moving forward,
  this could be a big catalyst. Finally, its touch panel controller has
  been adopted by a top worldwide smart phone brand, with shipments
  expected at the end of the third quarter. The company plans to build
  upon this success to broaden its market share. However, the company
  will face a tough task competing against big players like Synaptics
  (SYNA), Cypress Semiconductors (CY), and Atmel (ATML).

Insider Buys and Share Repurchase Plan
The company recently that its chairman, CEO, CTO, and an independent
director intend to use their personal funds to purchase up to
approximately $4 million of the company's ADSs in the open market. These
guys earlier this year bought around 556,418 ADSs. Additionally, on June
20, the company announced a $25 million share buyback program. Share
repurchases up to August 10 totaled $0.8 million or 431,583 ADSs. This
share purchase plans demonstrate the management's tremendous confidence
in the company's long-term prospects.

To summarize, the investors seemed to have valued Himax for bankruptcy.
However, if its balance sheets are to be believed, the financial metrics
look good. Combine this with its decent business fundamentals and share
buyback, Himax looks like a good buy with limited downside risk.

Additional References

Q2, 2011 Earnings Release

Annual Report, 2010

Disclosure: I am long HIMX, NOK, SYNA, STP.




This article is tagged with: Long &amp; Short Ideas, Long Ideas,
Technology, Semiconductor - Specialized, Taiwan

More articles by Rajat Arora &raquo;

* Marvell: A Strong Buy At Current Valuation Tue, Aug 30





5 Small Caps Offering Growing Dividend Yields

Wed, Aug 17

by Investment Underground


Rising Interest Rates Are on the Way. Here's How to Protect Your...

Mon, Aug 1

by Five Plus Investor


Stryker Corporation: Strong Company With Compelling Valuation

Today

by Dan Hennessy


2 Beaten-Down, Cash-Rich Technology Stocks Way Under Analysts'...

Sun, Sep 4

by Bret Jensen




Centaur Capital's Favorite Stock Picks

Wed, Jun 1

by Insider Monkey


Comparing Dog Investing Strategies: Annual Net Returns for Various...

Tue, May 31

by Fredrik Arnold


24 Stocks Under $5 Undervalued Relative to Target Price

Tue, May 24

by Kapitall


Top Fabless Semiconductor Picks by Fund Gurus Concentrated in the...

Tue, May 17

by Ganaxi Small Cap Movers




2 Energy Stocks That Stand To Benefit From 'New Normal' Offshore...

Thu, Sep 1

by Amine Bouchentouf


Teva Pharmaceuticals: Time To Buy

Thu, Sep 1

by Ron Sommer


VirnetX Uniquely Positioned In Heated 4G Patent Battleground

Wed, Aug 31

by Dustin Moore


Mongolian Growth Group: A Pick And Shovel But Not For Commodities

Wed, Aug 31

by Free Cash Flow 50






You may also like




















* Recommend

  0



  Share this page


  Share






* Email
* Print







Comments (0)

Be the first to comment on this article




Add a comment















Load All Comments



























About the author: Rajat Arora










I have an MS degree in Computer Engineering, and I am currently working
as a software developer for a technology company. I have been investing
and trading stocks and options over the past 7 years.















Rajat Arora




* (2)
* (3)
* Profile












Send Message








You are currently following Rajat Arora
Stop Following






You are no longer following Rajat Arora

























































xx


Breaking News Updated at

 broke in the last few minutes - get the latest updates in Market
Currents. Updated at












TOP AUTHORS: The Opinion Leaders

TOP USERS: Commenters | StockTalkers | Instabloggers






&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Twitter &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;RSS Feeds  |  Contact
Us  |  About Us  |  Premium Program

Terms of Use | Privacy | Xignite quote data | Copyright © 2011
















